So many other creators, they're just
kind of like very unhappy people. Their
top of- mind thing if they've been doing
it for 10 years is, "How do I stop doing
it?" Right? They just feel exhausted.
They feel burnt out. They feel like
they're on this treadmill. And I was
trying to introspect on like why I don't
[music] feel that way. I feel very
energized saying like, "Wow, certainly
in the next 10 years, I absolutely want
to keep doing the same thing. If
anything, do it more."
>> But it's the fact that you packaged it
[music] that's what matters because
ultimately you just made the information
accessible.
>> I actually know the solution to
education. You hire actors, roughly the
same number of actors as there are
students. They charismatically engage
with at a social level their mark and
then they just show an interest in the
thing that you want the mark to learn
about. The problem is not explanation,
it's motivation. The most powerful form
of motivation is social. And then the
most powerful form of social motivation
comes from your peers, not from others.
It's very easy for people to create
[music] cages around themselves. Like
they found a thing and then that thing
becomes their cage and they're sort of
trapped by it.
>> How come that hasn't happened to you?
>> [music]
[music]
>> Grant, thank you so much for being here.
Welcome to the Luba Show. I'm really
excited to get started with something
that happens this summer, which is us
being at a wedding of a mutual friend
>> and you giving an insane speech at the
wedding.
>> Sure. [laughter]
And um actually a lot of people as I
heard afterwards have said that this was
the best speech that they've ever heard
at a wedding. And just to paint
[laughter]
>> I had fun writing that actually.
>> Uh actually Molly and I have relisted to
the speech yesterday night. Yeah. Yeah.
We did. We did.
>> Uh and just to paint paint a picture for
the viewer for anyone who's listening.
So the speech started the speech weaved
in nuclear fusion. it. We've done very
detailed reactions and observations
around both bride and groom and
observation of who they are over the
course of the years. We've done a lot of
emotion, a lot of really great pauses
when necessary in a speech. uh very
proper and good hand gesturing and um
you know the speech tied all those
pieces together in a very eloquent and
in a very succinct yet again vulnerable
and emotional way and I remember I
myself was like holy [ __ ] you know you
had how many hours to prepare this
>> well he came to me the day before
literally the day before and he was like
grant oh he doesn't call me Grant but
the nickname and he's like do you uh it
would be an honor if you could like give
a toast uh tomorrow and like you can't
say no. I'm not gonna be like, "No,
man." Like a day before.
>> It was a day before. And so then
obviously my mind between then and I'm
like, "Okay, I mean through cuz like
with the wedding toast you've got this
spectrum between um completely
unprepared and it's a little bit of a
mess, right? And then you've got like
kind of ad hoc. There's no notes, right?
Which is probably the best zone to be
in. And then you've got like actually
writing it out on paper. And
[clears throat] those can be good, but
also, you know, every time someone goes
up to give a toast and they like open up
their iPhone notes app or they have the
pip,
>> it's not that it's going to be bad, but
you're kind of like, okay, there's no,
it doesn't have the same like liveless
to it. So, I think any kind of speech
you do want to make sure you're giving
without notes if possible. Like, I gave
a commencement address a year or two ago
and my big regret there. I absolutely
could have had it memorized, but I just
I don't know, it felt more formal to
like have it there in front of me and I
was okay with it, but I think it just
would have been better if I didn't have
the notes in front. I'm like, "All
right, however it's delivered, let's
make sure that there's there's no
notes." Partly because you can just
lower people's expectations, right?
Like, if you give the impression that it
is you're just casually talking off the
cuff and you don't give the impression
that you've made any plans for like how
you want to tie it together at the end,
then the standards are actually a lot
lower for what feels good and feels like
it lands. If you do tie it together,
it's like, whoa, did he just come up?
It's like, no, you like planned it out.
But if there's notes, I think people
subconsciously have this sense that
like, oh, I expect you to have prepared
this in a certain way. So, if it's both
prepared, but also looks like it's not
prepared, like that's actually the
>> the medium you want to find yourself in.
>> Um, no, that was so that was so wild
though, just because it was Yeah. his
reaction afterwards because I was making
fun of him for giving me such short
Well, because it was such short notice.
He's like, "My lesson is that constraint
breeds creativity." I'm like to be fair,
I probably would have like stressed out
about it more if there was more more uh
notice ahead. Anyway, sorry, maybe you
have a question there. Thanks for the
kind words, but I'm I'm sure you're not
you're not bringing this up because you
just want to like shower praise on
>> I mean it was a really impressive
speech. So, you know, shower praise is
definitely a part of it because it's
genuine, but then I I was actually
wondering what the process of writing
that speech was. So, you had 24-hour
notice.
>> Yeah. Okay. So, um, let me let me try to
think back to what the process was.
Okay, so first I went to Claude and
>> Okay,
>> now LLMs are not good writers. So, you
don't say like write me a speech. If
anything, if you say write me a speech,
you just like don't do any things they
said. But I don't know how much we want
to I won't talk about like the specifics
of the wedding necessarily. You want to
make it personal. We were in another
country speaking another language. And
so, I first I I just was I was thinking,
how are we going to end this? Because
anytime you're giving a talk,
>> you you should know how you're going to
start. know exactly how you're gonna
start and you should know exactly how
you're gonna end, right? And the ending
is actually more important. Very often
people kind of taper out at the end and
they say, "And you know, you know,
thanks for coming." Like they're not
quite sure and and there's no strong
note to end on and people don't know
when to clap. So know how you want to
end.
>> So I'm like, I don't know. Are there any
common sayings that are romantic but
maybe not too cliche in the language of
this country? I'm like, I don't know it.
So, I asked the LLM like, "Hey, can you
give me some examples of sayings that
would be suitable for like a wedding
toast um in this language?" Turns out, I
looked it up afterwards. It just totally
hallucinated on me. It was just like,
yeah, it was just like not actually a
thing. But it was a really sweet
sentiment. So, I think what it was I
think it was pulling from there will be
these like memes that maybe float around
Facebook or something with these like
inspirational posters and it was a
really nice quote that captured um it
captured the moment for like where we
were and it was like it was sweet but it
wasn't like cloying and so it was a
really I was like this is nice and it
also referenced stars in there in a
certain way. I'm like okay so that's
good. These friends are also very
scientific and so I knew I could like
try to weave in science in some way and
there was a way to use
Like I had been reading about fusion
recently and there was like a specific
equation about fusion that I was like I
actually think there's a way that we can
kind of like give a little bit of a
sciency theme that I know the groom is
going to like.
>> I know I could land it on this quote and
it'll feel like tying things together
because like we have the sciency thing
and then suddenly there's like a sweet
sentiment. And then the middle stuff,
you know, just classic wedding toast
stuff. You want to have like specific
anecdotes. You want to tie in like what
makes the bride and groom so great, not
just as individuals but for each other.
and like having those book ends on like
I know I want to start with like a joke
about making this overly sciency and
then like step back. I know I want to
end it by like tying it in there. Then
it was just a matter of like filling in
based on what I know about them. You
reference pauses also. This is an
important um feature of giving talks. So
you you it's best if you can memorize
it, right? But often you have to think
about it like unless you're a good
actor, which I'm not, and you like
really know your
>> You seem like a really good actor during
that speech.
>> Well, the way to seem like it
when you don't know what to say, right?
You actually have to think through in
your mind like the notes and where you
are. What what people naturally do is
they'll say like, um, okay, so where
were we? Right? Like they're kind of
like announcing that they're thinking
through their thoughts. Instead,
>> you look meaningfully at one person in
the audience as if it's a deliberate
pause, right? And so you linger on that
and you're comfortable in the silence,
but really what's going on in your mind
is you're like, crap, where am I? Like
what was the next thing, right? So you
have this like stern look on like
deliberate pauses if you want whatever
you just said to land. I don't know if
it was deep or not, but you give the
impression that it was. But really
what's turning in there is saying,
"Okay, where was I? We were at this.
Okay, this is the next step." You know
what I mean? But you just don't want to
show that on your face that that's
actually what's going on. And this maybe
comes from I I was um I was very serious
about the violin when I was growing up
and I had this vi like Hungarian violin
teacher who was both very good on the
technical side.
>> It's always the Eastern European
teachers.
>> They're so good. Yeah. But also on like
kind of the more performative emotional
side, like anytime we would have some
kind of performance, she'd be after
nailing down the technical aspect, she'd
say like what does this make you think
about? Like is there an emotional thing
that it actually connects you with? Like
I want you to be thinking about that
when you play. And another thing she
would say is like just don't show the
audience that you made a mistake when
you do. It's so natural as you're
playing like you miss a note and you're
like a crap. Right? Because it's almost
as if you want to tell the teacher like
I know that I missed it. She's like I
know you missed it. You know you missed
it. Don't let them know that you missed
it. And so kind of getting in the habit,
it's maybe faking it till you making it
make it is would be the cynical take on
it, but basically being in the habit of
having the confidence to be okay with
mistakes and just not show it and
proceed forward. Know that that's not
the crucial part of it. Have confidence
that the crucial part of it is where
you're going to land. So, in some ways,
like having that, I don't know,
upbringing from the stern Hungarian uh
violin teacher like had these crossover
effects on public speaking when
otherwise I'm kind of like a [snorts]
nervous person or I'm not like a the
kind of person who's going to be sitting
at the dinner table holding court in
conversation. Like, I'm definitely like
the quieter in the background type. So,
I don't think being up in any
environment and like giving public talks
is a natural thing for me. But it's just
come up enough just through like doing
YouTube or I like teaching and teaching
is a form of that that like there's been
room to think about principles on it
over the years. And so that wedding was,
you know, that's a fun excuse to
exercise that in a more casual context.
But
there's there's small little tips there.
The takeaways for anyone if they're
giving wedding to us, like don't have
notes. It's going to be better if you
don't. Just speak from the heart. Know
how you're going to end it and be
comfortable with your pauses. Like those
three things alone are just going to
make it a way better speech than like
90% of the ones that people end up
hearing at these events.
>> Yeah. On pauses, this reminds me of a
few things. So, uh, generally I'm trying
to deliberately work on my pauses when I
speak because I find that what you said
like rumbling that you're thinking is
almost the same as using filler words.
it makes you sound less confident
>> and a good
>> stable and strong pause makes your
speech only better. Uh, and what you
said about Hungarian violin and your
teacher is reminding me of um I sing
opera and performing and oftentimes
actually uh I might be performing a song
that I don't know super super well and
it's exactly what you said where you
know I one embody the character like
embody the energy of the song and then
when I pause my wheels might be turning
thinking about oh [ __ ] you know what is
the next line and like what does the
next line represent and it's very
similar to what you said about uh the
toes, but actually embodying the energy
that you want the entire thing to have
is so key and being like I am the
character. I am in the presence of this
vibe. Um and then you know being very
very confident even when you're
internally not actually that confident
if you forget something. Um so that's
very very true.
>> We actually bore witness to your
oporadic singing and just to add
mystique for the viewers about what what
the heck this particular wedding was. It
also incorporated a little bit of luba
oporatic singing and I thought you did a
good like there was a vibe that you
clearly got into this character as you
were doing it on like and now we were in
a different mode that was like a luba I
hadn't seen before.
>> Um so speaking of math and speaking of
YouTube since you brought it up I am
curious so you've been running your
channel now for almost 10 years or a
little over 10 years. over 10 years.
>> Uh do you remember what was that moment
and what was going through your mind
when you were like, "Hey, I'm going to
take a bet on going on this full-time
cuz it was quite a contrarian thing to
do at that time." Like now there is a
lot of people with the mindset of
wanting to do YouTube full-time even
before they get started. But back in
2014,
15 16 um that was a very rare thing to
do especially for a Stanford student.
Well, I didn't start it with the intent
of saying, "Hey, I want to be a
YouTuber." I didn't even really know
that was a thing. I remember when I
uploaded my first video, I got some
email from YouTube saying like,
"Congratulations, you have 27
subscribers." And I thought, "What the
heck is a subscriber?" Like, I didn't
actually kind of know how YouTube
worked. I followed certain channels.
Evidently, not as a subscriber. I just
use it the way everyone does, kind of
scrolling through and searching. And so
I had a sense that there's room for
really engaging educational material. I
had concrete characters in that space
who I looked up to. There was one in
particular who had actually offered some
mentorship in a way that I now deeply
appreciate because I just know how many
messages can come in once you have
>> who were the characters at that time.
>> So Henry Rich who runs Minute Physics.
Um, I just will I will do anything for
him because he was so helpful to me very
early on even before I really had any
video and I was just messing around with
kind of creating my own custom math
animation software. I kind of reached
out ostensibly saying could this be
helpful to your work but also in some
sense asking for a mentoring hand and he
he was very kind and I think he saw
potential in the earliest thing that I
made and then as time went on I was
working like my day job was at Khan
Academy so I was making math videos but
of a different sort and then
>> and Khan Academy was already after you'd
graduated.
>> So the way it happened I I made a video
or two at the very end of my undergrad.
I got in conversations with people at
Khan Academy thanks to Henry actually is
how I initially got the conversations
and then they were running this thing
they called the talent search which was
kind of like an open application for
video creators mixed together with some
notion of choosing 10 as the winners
that they would like fly out to visit
Khan Academy.
>> I'm pretty sure I listened to some of
your calculus and linear algebra videos
when you were K Academy.
>> Okay, great. And so the um yeah, long
story short, I got along very well with
the math team there. this turned into
like a one-year fellowship doing things
there. Um that turned into an
opportunity for longer than the one
year, but as it happened while I was
doing my channel in parallel on the
side. It it for various reasons made
sense to potentially uh just put my full
effort on that channel. Not in the sense
of, hey, financially this is like the
smart move. This is like go full-time.
There's a longer story I won't go into,
but it it sort of shook out that like
there was a period where hey, it makes
sense. Maybe let's give this a try. It
didn't pop off as the kids say in terms
of, hey, I put out a video and it goes
really viral. I remember for a long time
there was the steady growth of maybe
10%.
>> How long was that time?
>> Like multiple years of like 10% per
month of subscriber. Um, so it was
nothing that exploded. It was just this
like steady people who found one video
tended to watch other ones. Um, if I
made more videos that tend to bring up a
couple more people. And just to make
sure I understand, you were already
quote unquote full-time on the channel
like you were K Academy.
>> Yeah. So this is when I was at Khan
Academy and doing channel on the side
and that so there was that that bit of
growth and then I I uh was going to kind
of step back from Khan Academy. I did
like 25% time there and was focusing
more on the channel and that kind of
growth continued. There were a couple
spikes in there. I remember once there
was one morning when it was I had like a
100,000 subscribers and then the next
morning it was like 130,000. I was like
what happened? Damn.
>> Vsauce is what happened where there's
this very popular science channel who
like kindly mentioned one of my videos
in one of his and
>> that's amazing. 30,000 subscribers just
from one mention. I feel like that
doesn't really happen these days.
>> This this partly speaks to the value of
shoutouts then versus now.
>> Yeah, exactly. It changed a lot,
>> right? Like I mean the the the cliche
thing everyone talks about things are
more algorithm driven these days in
terms of how people find content as
opposed to recommendations word of mouth
or from other creators. So it was a
little bit more in that era where like
the word from another creator mattered.
It's also that like Michael Stevens has
a cult following and like people really
did follow what he was saying more so
than the average person. Um, and so that
gave some confidence that there is
something here, but it was never, hey,
this really blew up. Let's go. It was it
was also creatively fulfilling. I really
loved it. I made a tool to animate the
videos and with each video I would
improve the tool. It's very fun. You're
an engineer. You know how fun it can be
to code and to just make a thing that's
your own from scratch. So that was
creatively fulfilling. In addition to
the product itself, education feels very
nice, right? It feels like a a value
additive thing to contribute to all this
internet consumption as opposed to
consumption for consumption's sake. So,
I just loved it and I think I just
wanted to do more of it and it seemed as
if there was a decent enough appetite
from people. And in some sense I I might
have like jumped in earlier than was
rational to but again we there's a
longer story here but it kind of didn't
necessarily make sense to do both Khan
Academy and that at the same time
there's certain like conflicts of
interest there and so I was in hindsight
appreciated having an incentive to kind
of like get kicked out of the nest
earlier than I would have wanted to but
personality typewise it's like that's
not the vision I originally had for the
channel. I was thinking I would maybe
become an academic mathematician who
cares a lot about outreach and maybe the
channel is an aspect of portfolio to
kind of show the fact that I uh am am
interested in this aspect of outreach as
opposed to just interested in research
math.
>> Yeah, I was actually very curious about
the identity piece. So I know you wanted
to potentially become go into academia
and become a a researcher. Did you
what did the that what did letting go
that identity feel like when you decided
to really focus on the channel? You
loved it so much and you were letting go
of this idea that you were going to go
into academia. Was there some sort of
pull or like you know identity
distortion field. Uh what did that feel
like?
>> I think the there was never a good
reason to go in academia other than I
loved math and I wanted to engage with
it more. And if I was to sit back and
say what do I really want to do with it?
I love the teaching side. I love the
outreach side. I love trying to take
things even if they're already proven
and in some sense understood at a
research level and trying to say like no
but really why is it true? And I think
there's this space for like unsolved
expository problems where sure we know
that the thing is true but like really
what's the right perspective that makes
it feel obvious? That's the stuff I
loved. And I think the draw towards
academia is just that hey that's kind of
the only legitimized career path on like
having a stable place where the thing
that you do day in and day out is math.
And it wasn't even a thing to say like
how else would you do that? How like
what is the platform you would stand on
to do outreach if not authority lent
from like what your your actual day job
is? And in some sense maybe I suffer
from that still where it's like there
are entities who maybe don't respect
what I would have to say because I don't
have a PhD or things like that. And so
there's some cost there. But by and
large I think people mostly index off of
the stuff that you have made before and
they can judge it on its own just to say
hey is this good? Does this um capture
something that otherwise wasn't being
conveyed? Is it actually interesting?
Right? As opposed to just being a little
bit boring and if someone doubts the
like authority of where I'm coming from.
The nice thing about math is you just
like prove if it's true or not. Like
it's much more objective than a lot of
other things. And I think other fields
that are more subjective, people have to
lean on experts more or they want to
lean on experts more because it's hard
to judge from the content in and of
itself. Is it true? But with math you
can if you just think about it you just
look at the content in and of itself and
you can ask yourself like is this true
or not. Um and that you know that's one
of the joys of math is that it even
lends itself to that and you avoid some
of the like flame wars that can emerge
in more subjective fields. And in a
perverse way that also means that as a
you know non-ressearcher who
nevertheless is like really interested
in understanding at a deep level why
these things are true if you just convey
that you don't nec at least I believe
and maybe I'm wrong here you don't
necessarily have to have the like
credentials to stand on to put out
meaningful ideas because people can just
judge the ideas in and of themselves. In
one of the um conversations I was
listening to with you, I think it was
about five years ago or so, you
mentioned that you're more of a type of
person who likes likes examining things
that already exist and explaining them
to others in simple words. Um and I
think the the part of the conversation
was about creating something new versus
ruminating on the old. Um and given that
that dialogue was about 5 years old, has
that changed at all? like now that there
is so many new things happening with AI,
so many new exciting companies and so
many um new potential breakthroughs that
might happen. Do you uh regret miss kind
of long for being a part of the moving
the ma like the application of math
forward or um are you still happy where
with where you're at?
>> Interesting. you're pointing to AI in
particular because it's such a living
field where so much of the
>> so much more besides that
>> in general I think there's a there's a
fog of war at the forefront of any kind
of research pursuit where it's unclear
what are even the important ideas and a
lot of people thrive in that right they
they love the idea that hey it's not
even clear which of these are worth
thinking more about but they they choose
one and they would be the very first I
don't really care about being the very
first to understand something I may be
more motivated once things have been
>> out and it's clear that this is an idea
that actually works and actually has
significance which sometimes takes in
the math world like decades in the AI
world you know months or whatever the
the equivalent would be I find it very
motivating if I know something is deep
and useful to then like spend my energy
trying to understand okay why is it true
and I think there's a lot of space for
taking things
that have been discovered and basically
how do I want to phrase this like the
very first iteration of something is
often not the clearest version of it cuz
it you know it's not even clear what the
right language to phrase it in and
everything and then as it actually gets
used then you kind of see again you're
an engineer I think you know the feeling
when you're coding something up if it's
from the ground up you might make like a
a version one or version zero and it's
only by making it that you realize oh
this is actually what I wanted it to be
or actually what it should look like and
you're tempted to kind of scrap it all
and like make something again fresh. I
think the same happens with how you
express ideas where and you see this in
the history of math and and computer
science too where certain ideas start to
crop up in an awkward way that's like
too tied to a specific use case and like
the motivation is a little bit
meandering because it was just going to
happen to be something and the cleanest
version of how to describe it has yet to
be discovered and that ends up getting
filtered out through well a lot of
things through like how it was used
through when people try to teach it in
the lecture halls what turns out to
resonate or not and I feel like the
forefront discovery that's going to
happen there's a bunch of incentives for
that to happen because academia is a
thing people are very um motivated by
being the first to find something um on
the side of hey really deeply
understanding it even if it's not like
academically publishable. I don't know
there's not the same incentive there and
it feels like a space where maybe it's
not going to happen in the same way
right and also in a sense of hey what's
actually useful to people this is a
thing I've softened on over the years I
was maybe younger when I was younger I
was very interested in the content of
this video is something like
sufficiently novel right it's it's just
not a thing that that you're going to
find and I was really hung up on that in
some ways over the years what resonates
the most with people is not so much hey
topic or this proof is like, hey, we
never would have seen it before. It's
actually a lot of the more standard
things where people just want to know
how it works. Um, like, you know, one of
the most successful videos is just what
is a neural network? Hey, there's a
million other videos on neural networks,
but maybe if I can do it well enough or
visualize it well enough or motivate it
well enough, that actually reaches
people more significantly. Now, I'll
always have a special place in my heart
for topics where it makes someone think
like, wow, that's so clever and they
never would have seen it before. But in
some ways, the ones that mean the most
to people are just clarifying how does
this thing work? Even if someone else is
going to try to explain it, maybe I can
I can visualize it better. I can
motivate it better. I've got these like
principles I've gained over the years. I
have an audience size such that I'm more
justified in in maybe pursuing some of
the topics which are common. Whereas, if
you're a much smaller channel, you
benefit from doing things that are
extremely niche because no one else is
doing it. So, over the years, I've maybe
shifted
potentially to be like less interesting
in that sense or like not being as hung
up on like making sure that this
particular thing is novel.
>> What has caused that shift? Uh was it
gradual or were you were you listening
to feedback of people? Were you just
kind of, you know, listening to yourself
and what you're more drawn to being
quote unquote useful?
>> Well, you see what resonates with
people. I mean, I'll give an example.
When I visit universities, very often
students come up after a talk and
they'll like express some form of
gratitude and often it's gratitude for
this one series I made like nine years
ago about linear algebra. Now I didn't
like have any novel insights about
linear algebra in that series. I wasn't
saying anything that like any
mathematician wouldn't know about linear
algebra, but I was taking the style of
aggressively visualizing things, letting
movement speak for itself. Um, making
sure that formulas are motivated by the
idea already being populated in
someone's mind through those visuals.
And that style really lent itself to
scratching a n itch for linear algebra
where I could communicate the same thing
the textbooks were trying to or the
professors were trying to that's just
hard to come through in any other
medium. And so there's a topic pretty
standard, right? Like all STEM majors
are going to learn it pretty well
covered like there's lots of textbooks
on it, there's lots of lectures on it.
But simply because of the style and
simply because of the way I was doing
it, there was a lot of value to be added
by doing it in a particular way and
maybe being more clear. So had I been
hung up on hey, I'm I'm not going to put
anything out unless like it's no one
would have seen this before like no one
would have um you know seen this
perspective on like calculating
determinance or something. I just it
would have been a worse series. It would
have been a worse bit of content because
it wouldn't address what people were
actually searching for. They just wanted
to understand. They didn't care about
the novelty. They just want to
understand it. And in fact, the lack of
novelty corresponds to the fact that
it's widespread and useful. And so
again, there's always going to be a
special place in my heart for you want
to make sure that there is content that
is surprising and gives things that
people otherwise wouldn't see anywhere.
But what I've softened to is the idea
that actually a lot of the value that
can be delivered with the like medium
that I'm using this particular way of
visualizing math um I would be I would
basically be overlooking a whole bunch
of value that you can deliver to people
trying to learn in the world by ignoring
the like standard topics. Yeah, I can
very much resonate with that because as
you know I'm coming back to content and
outside of uh doing conversations with
people I'm also thinking through oh is
there original contents that I can be
making and there is this feeling of
wanting to do something new something
different but at the same time it also
feels like everything has been done you
know all the deep or not deep thoughts
or lessons have been shared um and then
the novelty maybe is coming from the
delivery for you like it's you and your
own experiences that you're sharing with
others or maybe it's the formats or
maybe there is some other little
sprinkle that you know you take the same
product but you tweak one thing and then
it becomes a novel product. So basically
uh I was reading one of my friends blog
posts about writing and sharing new
ideas and something that really
resonated with me is that the novelty
doesn't really matter as much as what
matters is that this person at a given
point of time in their career and life
has gotten a chance to learn this
information and it just happened to be
from you. It might be the same
information that they have uh they would
have had access to through reading books
or through stumbling upon it in some
other way but it's the fact that you
packaged it that's what matters um
because ultimately you just made the
information accessible.
>> I will say though like even if at the
high level what is the topic you don't
have to be hamper novelty. I do think at
the more micro level on like how exactly
are you describing it um it is worth
your time to think of like digest it in
a way that is going to be sufficiently
different for the reader or for the
viewer. Um cuz you can kind of think to
what extent are you a source and to what
extent are you a relay right and there's
certain ideas where often the way the
modern world works it's like an author
writes it in a book right and then like
a YouTuber reads that book and conveys
basically the same idea right or Yeah,
there's just a lot of like content
creation out there where it's really
just people being relays. And I think
listeners and viewers and readers kind
of get a sense of that at some point and
maybe one or two articles they find
interesting, but they're not going to be
like loyal followers. The places where
you get actual loyal followings where
someone wants to say like, "Wow, what
did Luba upload next?" It's going to be
if they have a sense that you're more of
an origin, you're more of an actual
source on that. And so when I'm talking
about novelty, like at the high level,
like what is the topic covered? I think,
hey, don't shy away from the ones that
like other people have covered. But it's
still worth being a little bit ruthless
as you're editing down the ways that you
might describe it and the ways that you
might even present it in the first
place, saying like that's pretty
standard. Someone else like would say
that and finding something that you kind
of can hold as your own such that
because people will pick up on this in a
subconscious way and they will know like
wow every time I watch one of Luba's
things like actually like I really come
out thinking about something
differently. When you have that feeling,
then you're going to get the loyal
following who independent of the topic
lands on your next thing. Because I
think there's a lot of creators, they
have like one or two things that like
work really well and then they keep
trying to make a bunch of other stuff.
They're like, it's just not resonating
with the audience as much. And it might
be like those two things work because of
the topic and like that topic people
happen to be searching for and it kind
of didn't matter who made it. They just
needed like someone to relay it to them.
And if you're only being a relay, then
you just are relying on luck that you
can find the things that you're relaying
and you happen to be like the the most
um SEO optimized relay for it. If it's
something where you can consistently be
a source for it, that's when like
someone might say, "Well, I never would
have thought to watch a video about like
X, but hey, Luba made that video about,
so it must be worthwhile." So it's
it is it is worth being a little bit
ruthless at the micro level on like
making sure that there's something
something distinct. Yeah, that's very
true. This makes me think about purity
of art. How did you find the purity of
your style? Because it's I'm actually
I'm curious what the process of making a
video is like, but I would imagine that
let's say you take neural networks,
there is so much written about them.
There is so much information online. How
do you make sure that the essence of
your um of your explanation is very much
you and is not a derivative of something
else that you read somewhere?
>> How would you define even your the style
that you usually use outside of the
animation component?
>> Okay. Sure. Well, so on this front,
sometimes I'll talk to other like
creators or maybe journalistic type
creators and they'll talk about their
process where there's like the research
phase and then like the writing phase
and production. And when I look at my
process, there is no research phase for
a particular project in the same way.
It's more like I want to always be
learning about stuff. There's a long
list of things that like maybe I would
make a video on where there's some stuff
I already feel like I know very well.
And so the like potential energy is
there to car it out. There's stuff that
I don't yet feel like I have groed in my
mind, but know would make a good video
at some point. And so I just try to like
ambiently learn about it. And I think
the way I end up going about it like I
don't know neural networks might be a
good example where I had you know I'd
learned about this in college so it's
like it was there in some way there was
request you know to to make a video
about that that time I was doing a
little bit more math so I'm like oh
computer science thing do I want to oh
now people are curious on it and so I
like revisited but it had been in my
mind since college and I like revisit I
read some things but I think having a a
lot of time where that's not necessarily
the project that's on the top of the
queue in that moment but on my horizon.
I know I want to do neural networks at
some point. So, I'm like ambiently
thinking about it, playing around with
the code myself. Um trying to come up
with how do at what point does it feel
like it clicks in my own mind? um not
because hey I was reading something and
someone said this thing but I was just
like holding it in my own mind and I say
you know this actually feels like it
motivates like why are there layers or
why are why do we have this like weights
and bias structure or as as you get
later on like what's the function of the
attention mechanism or or all that I
think
I this is a long-winded way of saying I
like do a lot of mulling just a lot of
mulling before it actually gets to the
point where hey this month the project
on the top of my queue I feel confident
that I can do the video about
Transformers finally or something. And
so the research phrase, it's not so much
like, hey, now this is this project. I'm
going to spend two weeks researching.
And the thought there is that when
you're consuming content, what's way
more fun is to feel like you're watching
a video from someone who actually really
knows about it, right? And they just
happen to be making video as opposed to
watching a video from like a science
journalist who job is to like translate
things for public consumability. and
they spent two weeks trying to get up to
speed on it and like do their best to
like translate like what they spun up on
in those two weeks. You can just kind of
tell when it's someone who like doesn't
actually know it deeply and to know
something deeply just takes a long time.
And so in that way I don't I can't think
of any process for for me where where
that research phase for a particular
video would be like concentrated into a
short amount of time instead just having
a lot of things that I want to
understand and just try to think about
and learn about and then every now and
then it might bubble up to where I feel
confident enough on it that it could be
something that's the next month's video.
That's how it ends up working. This
makes me think of a relationship with
audience and algorithm because a lot of
creators, YouTubers, Tik Tockers, anyone
who creates something online oftentimes
fall prey uh to the algorithm or to the
audience and wanting to put themselves
into boxes and systems like hey I need
to come up with a video every single
week or every two weeks is my cadence
and then as a result you try to reverse
engineer your process. Um how come that
hasn't happened to you?
I've always so I've never thought about
schedules in the sense of like hey I've
got to upload on like this because when
I consume content I kind of I don't care
how often the person has uploaded. I
just care like is the video good?
There's very few things that I follow
where I'm following it out of habit.
It's like oh every week on this day some
I know Lou is going to upload and I want
that's just not how I consume. And so
maybe I'm projecting onto the audience
that I think to I think the audience
doesn't care if you've uploaded things
consistently for the last couple weeks.
It's just a video might pop up to them
maybe through friend recommendation,
maybe through algorithmic
recommendation. They just care is it
going to be good? So I've always just
focused on hey is it good? I get antsy
if I haven't published for a while just
because personally I like to have stuff
happening in my life and seeing
something go out the door is a is a
emotionally satisfying thing but it's
not because I think oh no the audience
is going to be lost if
>> it's very impressive after doing a
channel for so long like literally
you've never been trying to put yourself
into a system
>> well and so it's very interesting these
days when I go to conferences and like
chat with other creators so many other
creators they're just kind of like very
unhappy people and they they their top
of- mind thing if they've been doing it
for 10 years is how do I stop doing it,
right? They just feel exhausted. They
feel burnt out. They feel like they're
on this treadmill. And I was trying to
introspect on like why I don't feel that
way. Like I get exhausted in certain
ways, right? But I I feel very energized
saying like, wow, certainly in the next
10 years, I absolutely want to keep
doing the same thing. If anything, do it
more. I'm like, why do I not feel the
same exhaustion others do? Part of it I
think part of it actually is not having
a team and therefore not having this
sense of like wow here's this engine
that needs to run and mouths that need
to be fed and like if I'm not like
banging on all cylinders if this video
doesn't get such and such many views
then like the the organization halts or
something like I think that can be an
easy source of stress. I think focusing
on um like lessons that are meant to be
evergreen as opposed to topical content
that you're hoping hits a moment. I
think if you're dependent on hitting a
moment, then it can be very stressful
because a lot might be writing on hoping
that you like actually hit a certain
wave and if you don't it's like wow like
if it doesn't hit now then it's it's not
going to it's not going to pick up later
on. Whereas a lot of the successful
successful content that I've made takes
the form of you know maybe some people
watch it now but it just my goal is that
it's got high number of views like 10
years from now there's just like a
stable set of people who like kind of
come to it. um like that matters a lot
more to me than like number of views in
the first month and such. And so I think
things like that can mean when you're
saying, "Hey, do I have a video out this
week? Does it matter or not?" It's like
I don't really care like this week or
not. What I care is like there's is the
thing that I made good enough that 10
years from now there will be cause for
people to be like coming back to it and
that you know like I said there's
there's a lot of privilege actually in
that like it's it's not
it's [snorts] not a given that you even
can make stuff without a team. And I
there's like contractors that I'll use
like someone else writes the music I'll
collaborate with. It's not like a fully
solo endeavor but like much more so than
a lot of my colleagues I kind of do it
end to end at least these days. And I
think that that lends a certain freedom
just because there's uh there's
breathing room that maybe I I I can
understand a lot of other creators maybe
just kind of can't can't afford. And so
it's not like ah this is the right way
to do things. there's a certain amount
of privilege on like ah to have that
breathing room and to be able to like
make the choice that it's okay not to
publish something this week cuz it's not
like it's not there yet. Uh
this I'm I'm rambling at this point just
because as I was talking I became aware
I'm like you know a lot of things I'm
saying it's like a function of my own
like privileged position and so I don't
want it to come across as like
>> partially you can say that it's
privileged position but partially it's
also just a very stoic and grounded and
first principled view on work and craft
because multiple times you've mentioned
that the the thing that you care about
is is this video good enough? Is it
something that people will resonate
with? are you having a novel take on
let's say on explanation of the same
topic or a different topic and I think
grounding yourself in that is a skill
that one can develop somehow so I'm
curious how you have developed it
because in the world of you know you're
being fed metrics all the time um and
you have creator friends that you said
are quite unhappy a lot of them and just
want to get off the train of being on
the YouTube algorithm at the mercy of
the algorithm or the mercy of whatever
they feel like they're at the mercy you
off. Maybe it's their audience. So,
yeah. What makes you so uh grounded in
those first principles? Is it I don't
know.
>> Metrics are such an interesting case,
right? Because like YouTube throws all
the numbers at you. It's like how many
people watch, what was the watch time,
how many likes, all of that.
>> And most people I know too are obsessed
over over those numbers. It's way too
easy.
>> You know what my like um my like guilty
pleasure is? Is to open up the real time
thing. I don't get any information from
it, but just to see the real time views
happening like in the last 48 hours.
Yeah. It just that's like my happy place
or that's my like dopamine hit.
>> I'm like that's so useless. Like I learn
nothing from that, right? Just seeing
like how many people have watched in the
last 48 hours or like you know is it a
little is is any video getting a weird
upswing now that it usually doesn't.
>> I also would strongly disagree with your
perspective about privilege because you
literally again just said that a lot of
your creator friends are at the mercy of
the algorithm and I'm sure a lot of them
are also quote unquote privileged and
have uh big audiences and big channels.
So they really should not be feeling
that way.
>> Well, okay. So I I I really do think
that like team versus not team dynamic
makes a difference here where
>> the process that I have. Um
>> well, we can talk about this later. I
actually think I should have a team and
that there is a way to do
>> Yeah, let's bookmark this topic. But
>> if I did if I did this, right, if I had
like things that were filmed
>> and uh I needed to like I would hire an
editor yesterday because like I don't
want to do that. It takes a bunch of
time. But editing for me is this very
final part of the process where I've got
it all written out. I'm the way I'm even
thinking about what the content should
be is by like looking at the animations
in a timeline. Sometimes there's a
script, sometimes there's not a script
for that section. Instead, I just make
the animation and I talk it through like
a talk. And so the whole process is so
intertwined, it's very non-trivial to
even extract out, hey, how would I
outsource this different part? I don't
even know how I would outsource the
editing. I can see outsourcing like
animating or other things. Again, we
bookmark this and talk about like plans
on that, but the way I currently create
things, it's possible for me to make it
all on my own.
>> I think for other kinds of content, it
might just actually not be possible for
like one person to make it on their own
at a decent cadence. And so to even do
the thing at all requires having a team.
And once you have a team, there's
certain like minimum requirements on
like revenue to even meet payroll.
Almost all business models in YouTube
are going to depend on the number of
views in some way. And so that means
those analytics that you're hitting are
not just dopamine hits on like hey big
numbers are fun. It's like no actually
are we consistently meeting payroll.
There's a lot of added stress there. And
so the privilege I think is just from
the particular style that I have or the
particular I don't know skill sets
around like the the animating is my way
of even writing the the content and and
that I love doing it right. I'm not like
burned out by animating. A lot of people
when they think they're like in After
Effects and they hate it and something
but for me I'm like this is my happy
place. like this is where I feel
comparative advantage and like I'm
creating something novel for this
explanation that it's like a style and
an audience category and a bunch of
things that have have gone well such
that I can do it the way that I can do
it and like not experience the same
burnout mechanisms that other creators
do where even if they have the same
audience size it might be the case that
in order to actually carry out their
process it's not even an option to like
do it without a team and and that's
that's kind of the privilege I'm
pointing to it's not so much like you
know a particular Yeah. Yeah. Yeah.
Exactly.
>> One of my hypothesis is maybe you feel
so at peace with um metrics and
algorithm and why you're so focused on
is the work really good is because you
were so indexed on being in academia
when you were younger because academia
is quite focused on the process. You're
researching. You're tinkering. you're
trying to produce really good work
versus being uh very overindexed on, you
know, promotions and on the external
worlds, so to say.
>> I'd like to be able to say, "Oh, yeah,
that's exactly right. I have this type."
No, but I I I definitely am a little bit
um you know, addicted to the numbers in
the right way. Okay. The specific
examples I think focusing on the right
metric rather than wrong metric. So, for
example, wrong metric is number of
views, right? Slightly better metric is
watch time, right? I think even better
metrics than that for the kind of thing
I want to do is like watch time let's
say per month five years from now or
something right and so like what if if
you're going to index on one number
associated with a particular video I
don't think it should be like the number
of views that it has I think it should
be the number of people right now who
are watching it
>> and they don't show you that number but
you can calculate that number very
easily because you take the the watch
time per month
>> and so you've got like you know watch
hours per month but a month is a number
of hours. So you've got watch time per
time. You cancel that out.
>> But actually what that that top part is
like people minutes or people hours.
>> But I think that's still very externally
focused because of the algorithm. They
might or might not show your video.
>> Let's talk about the algorithm because
like people creators love to talk about
the algorithm. They love to talk about
>> like it's this blackbox
sea monster with like this uh this
ephemerrable taste one day that like
turns into a different taste the next. I
feel like I know exactly what you're
going to say that if your video is good
and the watch time is good and people
and the retention is good then the
algorithm no matter how many times they
change it they will be shown in your
video.
>> Yeah I think broadly speaking it's a
mirror of people's interests and it's
not exact right
>> the the platforms are very incentivized
to make it a better mirror of people's
interests and if you replace when people
say like the algorithm wants blank if
you replace the words the algorithm with
the audience
>> it's almost always like the same. It's
like, oh, the algorithm really wants
good thumbnails or something. It's like,
no, like people will only click on
something if they have reason to click
on it. Like, you know, it's not the
algorithm wants that. It's just that
like this is how humans work if you need
to like capture their attention in some
way or the algorithm wants longer watch
time. It's like, oh, people got more out
of it when they were doing that. Now,
there are concrete ways that matters
like maybe when the algorithm is being
trained, what is it being trained
against? Is it trained against like
watch time? Is it trained against
meaningful watch time? How are they
measured meaningful? Like there are
there are tweaks to how the actual
models are trained that maybe are
significant and you can say where does
it deviate from what we want it to be.
Pretty clear examples of this would be
people probably don't want to spend all
day on YouTube. Um YouTube wants them to
spend all day on YouTube and that's like
a divergence of interest. So let's say
there's a channel about running and you
like watch it and it's got this really
informative thing on like hey here's a
thing that you should try for your
training regimen or your form and you're
like that's really good. and then you
close your laptop and you go out for a
run. That's very good for your life
experience and like you got more value
out of that. But then but from YouTube's
perspective they're like man I showed
this video and then they just stopped
watching entirely and they stopped
working. So there is a deviation there
right and so I I do want to acknowledge
that but I think 90% of the commentary
creators have about the algorithm is
like could just as easily apply to
talking about audience needs. And I also
think when a creator's video does very
well, it's because of all of their hard
work and their understanding of their
audience. When their video doesn't do
well, it's because the stupid algorithm
didn't like like changed and you know
what I mean? Like the only focus on the
algorithm when like things don't go
well. Um as opposed to trying to
introspect and say maybe it just wasn't
a good video or when things did go well
saying like thank god the algorithm
exists cuz how else would people have
found that right? like every one of us
owes our careers to like the existence
of recommendation algorithms and yet it
gets a lot of hate. So my focus has
always been this is so cliched it's
almost not worth it is like do people
enjoy watching it like will people get
value out of it and like the rest will
take care of itself and so things that
people might think of as growth hacks
like hey make sure the first 30 seconds
are really engaging that's not because
of the algorithm that's just because
that's how people work like I think of
my own habits when I view something I
need to be hooked so if I'm not hooking
then like that's it make sure that the
thumbnail like is compelling yeah
obviously because like [laughter] what
why why else would someone click on it
if they don't have cause to if they
don't come think that they're going to
have a good experience and the only
things that they see to understand if
they're going to have a good experience
there's thumbnail there's title there's
also two other things there's the
channel name and then there's like the
runtime that they kind of see there and
so the channel name probably actually
counts for most of it in terms of is the
last thing they watched something they
got a good experience from. So if
someone is trying to say wow the
click-through rate on this was like
really good why was that it might
actually have nothing to do with the
thumbnail. It might have been because
the last video they watched was really
good and they really wanted to click on
what Luba's next thing was. And so
a lot of these things, I don't know. I
just don't think that the metrics thrown
at you or the discussion around like
what is the algorithm optimizing for
cause you to make decisions that are any
better than if you just say what do
people want here or what would I want if
I was a user.
Then again, it's really nice to see high
numbers in the app and there's a certain
monkey brain part that just like, you
know, is triggered by that.
>> Would you say you mostly see your
channel as fun or as work?
>> H I mean,
it is work, right? Like it's um it's not
like a confetti driven party all the
time to like make stuff for it.
I would say
once I'm in a project, I'm like 20% of
the way into a project up until like
90%. It's very fun and I just like it's
just craft and like I enjoy that and I
enjoy like thinking about how the
audience is going to like a thing. I
don't know. Like I'm making a video
about the hairy ball theorem right now
which is a serious name, a silly name
for a serious bit of math and it's
>> Could you explain in a few words what
the hairball?
>> Yeah. Yeah, sure. The informal statement
is if you have a ball that's covered in
hair, you can't comb down all of the
hair to be flat. At some point, you're
going to get like a little cowl lick
where it kind of has to stick up at some
point. There's no like elegant way to
smooth it. Whereas, like on a donut, you
could smooth out all the hair really
elegantly. Um, on a four-dimensional
ball, you can smooth it out just fine.
On a circle, you can smooth it out just
fine. You kind of go around. But
threedimensional ball, you can't. Now,
that's a silly statement. You might even
wonder why someone would care. So, I
want to motivate in the video like this
kind of thing naturally emerges. This is
like a metaphor for a natural kind of
math that comes up, but also the
exploration for why is it true. There's
just a really beautiful proof. It's
really fun to animate why this proof is
true. There's other fun things to
animate that are just like mindopening
as you go just in like the land of pure
math. And it's fun. And so I've just
really been enjoying the the craft of
that. I don't know if this video will
actually perform that well, but it's
it's like a fun thing to make. There are
times when it feels like work where I
don't know if I'm strategizing. Hey,
what should the content be in the next
year? You know, it's not so much me
saying, let me have the most fun. It's
like,
>> why am what am I doing here, right?
Like, what am I optimizing for? Uh what
should my principles be in choosing?
There's a certain, you know, it feels
like the like BD strategic discussion on
on that. So, it goes back and forth, but
>> Okay. So, you do plan out the contents
for a few months or a year in advance. I
just you just mentioned that.
>> Well, I make the plans, but I don't
follow the plans.
>> Okay. So,
>> how does that work? Well, the way that
it works is at the start of a year, I'm
like, here are the things that feel
important to cover. And then as the year
proceeds, some of those projects blow
up. Some of it it's like, well, this
turned into two videos, but I wanted to
make a follow-up on this. Sometimes I
got nerd sniped by this one thing that
goes in. So, like half of those goals
are actually met. Um, I I kind of want
to be more principled about that. Things
always take longer than than I wish they
did.
>> What makes you want to be more
principled about it?
Well, I mentioned earlier when I go to
universities there's this gratitude for
like a series I made.
>> I think a meaningful footprint that I
could leave is to make series like that
for a whole bunch of topics. I always
sit at the start of a year and I plan to
I'm like that was called the essence of
linear algebra. I made one afterwards
that was called the essence of calculus.
I made a promise to make an essence of
probability and I've made like six
unpublished videos for it over the years
that just weren't good and just like and
then have like scattered probability
material that like should be in a series
but it's just a mess and it would be
more meaningful to students if I got my
act together and made a good version of
that or the linear algebra series is
very incomplete and I think making a
whole sequel series like it would
actually help a lot of students to just
do that. So on the we've got on the like
curricular side like lessons longer form
series there's a lot of value to be
added that kind of doesn't get
prioritized because maybe it's a little
bit more fun to make some of the other
stuff maybe um maybe you know I am
suffering from the short term versus
long term like hey I I preach wanting to
make something that will be watched a
lot 10 years from now but then in
practice I feel the draw towards
something that I know will reach more
people sooner. all these little things
stack up to where for whatever reason
the like next essence of blank it just
gets dep prioritized and then at the end
of the year I'm like I'm like ah man I
really meant to do that and then I just
didn't like other things came up and so
I would knowing that that's where
there's a lot of value in the long run I
would benefit from
putting in place the processes to ensure
that that actually happens. Yeah, I
think the mental talk that you have with
yourself or when things like that happen
is really really important. And you
strike me as someone who as I mentioned
before is really grounded and is very
focused on am I doing good work? But now
you're also saying that oh often times
when you don't follow your road map and
principles you are like oh I want to
follow those principles again next year.
What is the conversation that you have
with yourself in those moments and does
it really put you down or uh what is
your mental hygiene? [laughter]
>> Um I think I want to have principles and
then there's multiple competing
potential principles in there. For
example,
is like how should I value curricular
stuff versus like general sciency
interest stuff? Um, do people land on it
because there's a particular thing that
they want to learn and my job is to be
as helpful for that particular thing or
are they landing on it because they
trust that I'm going to give them
something interesting and my job is to
like inspire and show that like math can
be beautiful. And the right answer I
think ends up being both. And so the
like mental tuck I'll have with myself,
it might be like both sides of those
brains uh both sides of that brain like
combating each other for the next
particular project to say what should be
prioritized. I think what I want to do
is just try to get to the capacity where
I can do both and it's not a trade-off
to be had and almost in the same way
like an or a company has different
departments have like the curricular
department that like the the mission is
to create foundational material that's
highly visualized lessons for the
important topics in math so that someone
can come up to speed on it. I know that
would be valuable even if it takes a
long time to make and like short run
like fewer people see it. on the other
side, consistently having things that
bring joy and show the beauty of it and
where like I just feel passionate about
it and I get to share that like I don't
want to not do that. And if anything, I
think part of the reason that people
will come to the channel is because they
can like hear in my voice if I'm
actually interested in it or not. So I
don't want to ignore that. And so these
two competing principles, I think the
right thing to do is to say figure out
how to be how to do more, right? figure
out how to make it so that it's not um a
trade-off between doing the two of
those.
>> Um even if like short term that might
require uh
>> like time sacrifice.
>> Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. Exactly.
>> Time sacrifice and mental sacrifice. I
want to bookmark the topic on what the
channel could look like. But uh what I
wanted to ask is tell me more about the
process of how you have that
conversation with yourself. Is are you
journaling? Are you going on a walk? Is
this something you're intuitively
thinking about?
>> I mean yeah. So write you always think
clearer if you write. So I have um yeah
sure I have a mess in terms of like my
internal documents and whatnot but I
have like a folder in my computer where
I might just write like daily notes when
I just need to externalize my thoughts
and there will be like a note whose
title is the date. I never intend to go
back to it
>> like I can search it if I want to. In
practice I kind of don't go back to it.
Instead, the function of it is to be um
you know, when you put your thoughts
into words, either through speech or
through writing, it
>> becomes more clear.
>> It becomes more clear
>> and it it becomes um it's not that it
becomes more clear, it's that it like it
goes from not actually existing to
existing like it wasn't actually a
thought or it wasn't really a coherent
um idea at all until you were forced to
put into words. So, I have this. It's
all just like right right
>> and you write it every single day youce
just whenever. Okay. Yeah. or or if I
feel like I've got something I need to
chew through, it's like, oh man, I've
been like when I'm going to sleep
thinking about like my mind is kind of
buzzing around some set of principle
like what should the business model of
the channel be or like should I hire or
should I not or like should I focus more
on essence of type content or should I
focus on um just isolated one-offs that
people will do you know do I do I do
more machine learning things because
there's a really big appetite for that
or do I kind of stick to the guns on
like hey this is about pure math and
like insp all of these sorts of how do I
do that I just like
>> ruminations
ruminations. So, I write it down. I try
to articulate some principles. There's a
lot of redundancy. You know, there's
things where I'm like writing principles
that I had written down at some point
before, but like again, the whole point
is just make my current thinking actual
thinking as opposed to fake thinking.
Um, and [clears throat] that usually
adds some clarity and then I make
concrete plans based on that. Sometimes
if it's a thought that I want to
preserve, most of my life I just
organize in like Apple notes these days
where that'll range from like task lists
to like certain things I want to
>> Obsidian Snipes or Notion Snipes.
>> No, I Well, I might be notion sniped. I
think with an organization, Notion is
clearly going to be better than like my
current life system of files of Apple
notes that link to each other. Um,
Obsidian is enticing. I mean, cuz I'm
like already writing it in like MDX
files anyway. Uh, but I just I don't
know. It's like I kind of partly because
some of the life things I I want to be
like share with others in my life and
like not everyone uses obsidian and so I
haven't been obsidian sniped but I've
been obsidian intrigued. I anticipate
being not
>> I have recently got obsidian sniped but
now I'm actually
>> I know exactly why you have been
[laughter]
but um yeah.
>> Um so we've uh danced around the topic
of channel organization and channel
evolution a few times now. I think now
is the time to to actually dive into it.
So tell me a bit more about the channel
arc and uh the inflection point that you
have right now.
>> Yeah. So yeah, you could you're talking
to me at an interesting time because had
you chatted with me like 6 months ago,
this conversation would have been much
the same and now would be the end. I'm
like solo creation is the best. Life is
the best if you don't have a team. Um I
mean we haven't even talked about the
fact I don't do sponsorships and part of
that I think
>> Yeah, you made a big manifesto about it
too. Yeah, I wrote a manifest which so
actually I yeah I kind of I'm going to
walk back from to some extent but I I
think I can do it tastefully. Um yeah I
think there's a lot of fraught aspects
of that as a business model. I also
think for the longer term focus that I
wanted to have a monetization structure
that centers on views in the next 3
months does not set up the incentives
that I want to have. And it was clear
there was enough Patreon support of the
channel that like I could support myself
just fine. And if anything, maybe
leaning into that more, it frees me up
to not like negotiate with businesses or
have an agency or something. I think it
makes the content purer in a way that
actually helps the channel. Like the
call to action at the end is watch the
next video. It's not like go buy this
person's thing. Anyway, we haven't even
talked about all that. Where I'm right
now, sitting back and saying, how do I
want to spend my own time? What goals do
I want to achieve? In one of these
documents, right, in one of these, I I
sit down, I'm like,
>> actually taking a step back, what
triggered this rethinking? I don't just
one of these weekly documents. I think I
I was sitting here I'm like how do I
want to spend
>> some of my friends have asked if the
fact that I have a child now who's like
7 months old like has that sharpened my
thinking maybe subconsciously like the
the hours of the day aren't what they
used to be like really no it it very
much matters that in these eight hours I
get done what I find valuable
>> I don't think I'm learning as much these
days as I want to be I talked about the
like research process should be a lot of
ambient learning it would be very it's
easy for that to dry up and not happen
and then you don't feel the impacts on
content for like multiple years cuz I
can just and through the stuff that like
I already know well and then like 3
years from now be like dang it I don't
know anything else. Um not literally but
there's I I feel that like I'm not
learning new things as as much as I
would like to be. I'd like to spend more
of my days like reading and like writing
notes and such and I just don't. Um, I
also
have, as I've mentioned, you know, I've
got this conflict between do I make more
essence of type things or do I kind of
stick with a decent cadence on just the
one-offs. And
I I think I I sort of have had all these
hesitations around team growth, not
because I'm unaware of the benefits of
specialization of labor um or or the
best things in life coming from
collaboration. Like, I'm not an idiot.
Like I do know that these things are
very strongly valuable and there's a
reason economies orient themselves
around that way. Um but I also know that
it's very easy for people to create
cages around themselves. Like they found
a thing and then that thing becomes
their cage and they're sort of trapped
by it and it's very easy to go wrong and
I've like seen this in multiple friends.
So, long story short, I I do think the
right way to do this is find like a
trusted lean team to help make it such
that I can do the sort of things I want
to, but um just more efficiently where I
don't actually have to do all the
animations. This animation software that
I've created, it's open source.
Actually, a lot of people know how to
use it now. And I'm sure a lot of them
would be thrilled to like collaborate
and be a part of the team to make it
happen such that maybe when I'm making a
video, if I've got a vision for how I
want to visualize something, I like
start to describe that or start to code
it up and then someone else can see what
I'm getting at and run with it.
>> I think there's room to give more
narrative to lessons with non-math
visuals. You know, what goes on the
screen if I want to describe the history
of a topic. I kind of don't describe the
history as a topic now to some extent
because I the part of my brain that
knows that I'm going to be editing and
producing it later knows that I don't
know what I'm going to put on the screen
if I'm telling like the history of Gaus
or something. And so finding like a good
illustrator I think would be an unlock
for that. And also for a lot of other
just filler visuals through the the
normal kind of videos I would make. It's
just something I can hand off there. I
don't know the best way to use an
editor, but I'm sure that there is one
and I'd like to like make that more
efficient. And so I think if I get into
a mode of life where my working days
look like there's a a decent amount of
learning, there's a decent amount of
writing, and then there's a highly
leveraged like directing of how things
will go. I'll probably always want to
animate to some extent because like I
said, I I love it. I feel like this is
where I have a lot of comparative
advantage, but I don't have to do
literally every single one. I have a
vision for like that can work well and I
don't think that it will compromise the
like the feeling of the channel being
something where hey this is just the
lessons I want to express.
>> Um
>> and it sounds like that would be mostly
a function of how you think about the
business model because perhaps you
>> business model. Yeah. So then there's a
side of I've been quite happy to not do
sponsorships. Um, and I kind of like,
you know, it's like Patreon works fine
for like supporting me and like whatever
contractor needs I have, but I would
like to just make sure that there's
enough freedom that all of that is like
good and covered. And there's an idea
I've been toying around with for a while
that I hadn't like jumped in on, but I
will now. It's basically um rather than
a traditional sponsorship saying like
hey this video is brought to you by so
and so uh the audience has a lot of very
technically talented people like really
impressive people are in there's a lot
of companies who really value hiring
technical talent a lot of whom I really
love like you know a thing that doesn't
come through on the channel but like you
know about me I actually really like
just sort of like companies and company
culture and thinking about what are the
good ones and such and like it's a whole
part of my like intellectual life and
like how I engage with my friends that
just like doesn't come through on the
channel, but having a space where here's
a set of partner companies almost like a
virtual career fair that's just a a
place on my site and if the videos kind
of promote saying hey if you're looking
for a job or you want to work with other
teams who are interested in mathematical
talent and technical talent here's a set
of partners I trust on that this is the
business model I'm going to like sort of
>> try
>> yeah try out I think that aligns well
with the general I think it um overcomes
some of the short shortcomings I see in
like traditional branding creation type
stuff. Um, and and it should be enough
to just like support small team.
>> There's also a model of title
sponsorships that I've been seeing on
tech channels. By tech channels, I mean
like very Silicon Valley focused
channels and podcasts specifically where
a podcast uh video series gets a title
sponsor and the only thing that the
title sponsor is requiring is that the
logo of the sponsor is on the video, but
the host of the channel doesn't actually
talk about the sponsor at all.
>> Yeah. I mean I so I think it's very
important for people to um experiment in
the space and not not fall prey to ruts
that exist for pre-existing bit of
smiles and think how they do. So, I
think finding what's the right model for
a particular channel. You know, I think
certain podcasts like title sponsor,
that's a great way to go. It's
non-interruptive, but it's like good
co-branding. Um, I think one of my
favorite business models for YouTube
channel is my friend Ben Eer, who
teaches how to like he shows like
constructing
computing concepts from the be barest
bones like on a breadboard, right? And
then he like sells kits so that you can
do it yourself. And so, the thing that
you're buying is like highly engaged
with the content in and of itself. And
it's like that's just a super aligned
model. And so in my case, I don't know
if title sponsor where like on the whole
video you like see that I don't think
that would be as as good a fit, but I
think something where it feels very
valuable if I can say to the audience,
hey, everyone here needs a job at some
point in their life. Most people do. Um,
and you probably want to work with math
interested people. Um, there's a lot of
teams out there who are interested in
recruiting like the kind of top
mathematical talent.
>> Pairing goes off. It feels like high
value on both sides of those. I think it
can be uninterruptive to the channel and
so like that side of it the motivation
for doing it part I do think it can add
value to both sides there but then also
just um then it gives some breathing
room such that I think there can be like
a team and I also think done right then
it shouldn't feel like I'm on that
treadmill where like every single video
it's got to meet a certain mark in order
to meet payroll because the whole
structure of it would be hey five years
from now there's this body of videos
five years worth of videos that are all
like pointing to this this shared piece
of real estate and so it's more just
like quarter by quarter who wants to pay
to be there and it's not hey how
dependent um are revenues on like the
next video right and instead having the
videos that I know create like loyalty
to what we're trying to do um you know
hey if it it just reaches a couple
hundred thousand people but they really
love it that might actually be great
because uh it's just like what really
matters is is this a cultivated
connection collection of math nerds more
than like hey did I reach such and such
millions of people and you know you're
just paying by the impression. So that's
my plan. We can check in in a year to
see.
>> Yeah, that's really awesome. I'm really
excited for you. I'm sure it's going to
free up some of the time to learn more
and feel more
>> long run it will. Short run uh you know
like hiring and onboarding uh does not
happen immediately, right? And so I have
no illusions about like and then right
out right off the bat like my life will
be better. I'm I'm at like I'm at a nice
local maximum now. I am very well aware
that this involves going through a local
minimum of like less time spent learning
and less time spent creating, but I I'm
optimistic that in not too much time, it
can be a local peak that's even higher.
>> Are you excited to be working with
people? How has the loneliness of the
journey been?
>> So, okay, loneliness is interesting
because for me, once I'm in the craft,
>> I don't actually like working with other
people like moment by moment as I'm like
making the thing. But collaboration is
great, right? There's I mean there's one
person I'll hire next year who we've
done like some collaborative things in
the past. He just he's a very
interesting thinker. He's got a good
complimentary skill set. It's just been
very vibrant like the forms of
collaboration and I love that. That
should be much more fun. And I think on
the side of scoping things out or rubber
ducking ideas and things like that, I do
this very informally now just with like
friends, right? And having like a more
formal structure where it's like people
who are aligned and they're
[clears throat] actually making the
thing with you. that probably could be
more fun. Uh, but as far as the actual
like in the moment day by day, I still
kind of want to be able to wake up and
have no meetings on my calendar and just
kind of like do the thing that I want to
do.
>> Yeah, I feel very similarly. I kind of
like being on my most of my life, I've
done kind of loner things and even this
the premise with like working in the
office or working out of office. I think
when I was younger and I was working uh
at a startup or at companies, I was
really excited to go to the office to
interact with people. But that was
because also it was defining period of
my life. It was kind of like post
college time where you wanted to meet
people and
>> no one should work remotely post
college.
>> Exactly. Exactly.
>> That seems super unhealthy to me. So
>> 100%. And then now I'm like oh actually
I prefer just being on my own at a
computer and I prefer doing my own thing
without some external stuff that's uh
pulling my energy and pulling me away
from something that I want to be doing
at a given time. Uh but I think
obviously collaboration is always really
exciting which brings brings me to a
question around um friends and
professional circles over the years.
Have you been mostly spending time with
other YouTubers with academics with tech
people? Like who do you like surrounding
yourself with?
>> Yeah, those three. Like
>> actually that's actually pretty pretty
apt. I mean there's um
>> yeah there's like YouTuber friends who I
I really deeply value the connection
with. Um, I try to make an active effort
to stay in touch beyond just like
running into each other at conferences
cuz
>> What conferences do you guys go to?
>> Oh, you know, there's a bunch of secret
ones we can't talk about. No, no,
[laughter] I don't know. I think one of
the nicest ones there's one called Open
Sauce that um William Osman has like
started that like VidCon still exists,
but I think like
>> VidCon has changed so much.
>> It's changed. Right. Right. And so for
>> I'm surprised you even went to Vid you
went to
>> early on. It was great. The first year I
went I was like I think the first time I
>> probably when the Green Brothers were
still running it, right? Yeah.
>> Yeah. Exactly. And like I love the Green
Brothers, right? And so the first my
first
>> vibe is very different. It's very Yeah.
entertainment.
>> I don't think I'd ever go again, but
there are like things like that that
have kind of emerged usually much as the
Green Brothers started it because they
had a computer. They wanted to get other
creators like that um who like run like
I don't know maybe one day I'll like run
my own conference or something just
because like there's clearly value
there.
>> Um yeah. I mean, you and I were in
[laughter]
>> I need to know these secrets
conferences. I'm curious
>> what I would call it. Um,
>> it's fine,
>> but I could see something where I would
like to bring together like the math
academics who I'm I'm like try to stay
in touch with with like the creator
community. I think having a shared space
for for them would be great because
there's a lot of
>> a lot of academics will pitch me on like
you should make a video about X. I'm
like you're not wrong.
>> I'm not going to prioritize it, but that
would be a great video, right? and like
pairing that together with uh up and
cominging creators. That would be kind
of fun.
>> Yeah. So, on that point, how much um has
your ego been roped into your channel
over the years? Cuz again,
>> Yeah. So, uh are you how do you select
videos? Do you ever select videos
because you know you're good at
something? Do you ever shy away from
videos because you don't think you'd be
good enough or because you know your
channel is so big and there's certain
level of expectation. You're like, I can
only put out things of a certain bar.
And as a result that makes you shy away
from different topics. Um and just
generally you know relationship with
seeing you through a lens of
professional success and uh continuing
to be working on the craft and having a
beginner's mindset.
>> I mean I probably won't start to make a
video unless I have a clear enough
vision of how I would make it and that
it would be good. I might start
exploring a topic like having it on the
list like it would be valuable to cover
like like Transformers was something
that since like I don't know 2020 or
2021 it was clear like this would be a
really good thing to make a video on but
I didn't feel like I
>> I don't know just like had a clear
conception in my mind of like how I
would do it or what it would be and
wouldn't I probably made it in it's like
2024 or something. It was like pretty
long into the ex, you know, after like
GPTs had like existed and there was like
I there was an incentive to spend more
mulling time on that than other things
and eventually it bubbled up to say okay
I'll do this. So definitely there's a
lot of things I don't cover because I
simply
>> okay that I don't have time I just don't
have a vision of like what what would I
be making where at the granular level of
like motivation by motivation or idea by
idea like what am I bringing to the
table or even just what is the core
visual, right? I think there are topics
there are some topics where I want the
audience to think, "Wow, that's so
clever." That I'm not motivating it
because this is going to touch your life
in the world. It's just really pretty.
It's just really nice to like see why
this thing is true. Like a thing that I
um have a bunch of visuals for cuz I was
like giving a talk on it and I'll like
turn into a video at some point is uh I
don't know how I'll motivate this,
right? This is maybe one of the
impediments, but it's very pretty once
you wrap your mind around it. There's a
formula for the volume of higher
dimensional spheres which [laughter]
okay so I I need to work on the
motivation for it but it's really
pretty. It's like the prettiest formula
>> that tell me more what makes this pro
formula pretty.
>> Okay so when you're in school you learn
like the area of a circle is pi * its
radius squ. You might learn that the
volume of a sphere is 4/3 pi * its
radius cubed. And those are kind of the
only two examples that you can see
because like two dimensions and three
dimensions are the ones that we play
with. You probably don't learn that the
volume of a four-dimensional hypersphere
is pi halves times its radius sorry pi
squared halves times its radius to the
fourth. So it's it's pi squared. Now
that's weird. Like the first two it just
had a pi. This one had a pi squ.
>> And these seem kind of unrelated. If you
tried to guess like is there a unifying
formula? They just look different and
like if there was maybe it would be
ugly. There's just a single formula that
describes the volumes of all these
higher dimensional spheres which is very
clean. It's very pretty and it also
causes you to ask questions about what
should um the factorial of a of 1/2 be
like what's 1/2 factorial and you basic
you find yourself in this narrative
where first of all that seems like an
incoherent question and then you think
you write this what you want this
formula to be like hm even though that
seems like an incoherent question I know
exactly what I want it to be and then
like the math works out that when you
extend the factorial like that is that
is what it is and like the universe is
giving you this nice thing there's also
a bunch of other nice things around it
where the formula ends up telling I
don't know how much of this you you want
to but so if you just look at like the
volume of a unit um circle so it's got a
radius of one it's it's volume its area
is pi the volume of a unit sphere is
bigger and that kind of feels right
three dimensions it's bigger the volume
of a unit hypersphere in four dimensions
is bigger the one in five dimensions is
bigger but then in six dimensions it's a
little smaller and then in seven it's
smaller still and then it like really
rapidly decreases and if you look at the
volume of a 100dimensional ball that's
got a radius of one, it's like nothing.
And you look at that, you're like,
that's one that feels [clears throat] a
little bit weird. Maybe you think they
would grow, but also like what does that
even mean? Like what what are you
supposed to make of this small the
smallalness of that number? And I feel
like I have a really nice way to like
communicate what that means.
>> What does that mean?
>> Oh, no. This is this is the half hour.
This is this is much the video. I I I
literally cannot explain this to you
without visuals and also without like 10
minutes of like background to build it
up. But there is I think one can answer
that question. I'm like how should you
think about the smallness of that
number?
>> Now so this is a topic it'll be fun.
I'll have fun with it.
>> I don't know how to motivate it necess
it's not you're clicking on this video
because like you've always wondered
about the volumes of highdimensional
spheres. Some people will have right but
like most people won't have. So I don't
know what the right pitch on it is. So
there's topics like that that always
it's like on the mind. And it feels very
pretty. I know that once someone is into
the narrative,
>> they will get it.
>> They'll have a good time. I can promise
like once you're once you're on the ride
with me, I can give you a good time.
Even if I'm not sure how to bring you on
that ride. So that one I know what I
would make. I've even made a lot of the
visuals. So like I will make it at some
point, but it's just a question of hook.
There's other things where the hook is
very obvious.
>> Like reinforcement learning. The hook is
pretty obvious. Not entirely sure what I
would make that like feels compelling,
but like it's worth that being in the
mulling time. Like it's worth me
spending mulling time on saying like,
"Hey, is there something compelling that
I could do to like visualize certain
formulas around reinforcement learning?"
Don't know what the answer is, but like
the hook is obvious, the follow through
is not. Volumes was fears. The
followrough is obvious, the hook is not.
There is not.
>> Yeah.
>> Have you always seen math as beautiful?
>> Oh, yeah. Probably. I mean, I've just
loved it since I was since I was very
little. Yeah.
>> How would you define the beauty that you
see in math? Like what does what does
that feel like? What does that mean?
There's a there's a specific emotion I
really like and like to try to like
instill into the audience when you have
a thing that feels hard. You feel like
you understand the question be like I
have no idea what the answer is going to
be. Maybe it feels like it's going to be
a bunch of calculation or maybe it feels
like you don't even know what
calculation you would do in general. It
just feels hard. But then the right way
of seeing it, you like shift your
perspective in some way like the puzzle
pieces just fall together. That that is
a specific feeling. It's in the same way
that in music there's a specific feeling
that comes from having um dissonance
followed by some kind of harmony. You
like you have a trionee followed by a
fifth and there's like a very specific
emotion that that like brings out of
your heart. I think what's that what
that's doing auditorially math does kind
of at this logical level and it's
something kind of like that tension and
release. The tension that's like a
trionee is coming from it feeling like
this is going to be hard to calculate
and then the release that's like a
perfect fifth comes from like oh
actually if you see it this way I love
that and I think other people do and I
think if you can do a good job like
giving that there's also certain things
where there are surprises where there is
a truth and you know that can't be that
can't be like how is how is that the
case and so a lot of content on the
channel is centered around like pie
showing up in unexpected places and some
of my favorite videos are around that
because I mean my I'll never make a
video better than this one where there's
like um two colliding blocks and the
when you count the number of times they
collide with each other the like digits
in that number end up looking like pi
but like pi seemed to be coming from
nowhere and it's a very fun topic the
surprise is fun but also the way to show
why it's true is fun and that one the
intrigue and the like beauty of it it's
not so much like the oh this was well
there's a little bit actually of this
was hard and we have a clean perspective
but the beauty comes from like why is pi
here it has no business being here and
this sense that like there is a
cleanliness to the way that the universe
has like organized mathematical truths.
It's nice. There's a certain I can't
even put words to it, but there is a
very specific aesthetic to this in the
same way that other art forms have
certain specific aesthetics that like
move people in a way.
So for videos where you don't right away
see that beauty or for topics where you
don't right away catch the beauty, do
you try to force it somehow or do you
feel somewhat like creatively stunted
until you get there or do you just let
it go, release and work on a video that
immediately has that sense? Well, so for
the ones that are meant to be like
people are curious about it and they
want to understand it,
>> I try to make it as pretty as I can, but
I'm not hung up on like if I did a video
on reinforcement learning, I'm not going
to make sure like, hey, this is going to
this is going to give you that.
>> You don't think that if you really, I
don't know, meditate on the topic of
reinforcement learning, you're going to
find the beauty of it. It's like either
it clicks or it doesn't.
>> It would be a pleasant surprise if that
had the specific emotion I'm describing
here. I don't think it will. Most
emotional learning just doesn't. like
it's it's interesting to learn about and
people like the videos but it's that's
not the function it's serving. It's just
that they want to understand how this
thing works. I can make it as beautiful
as I can in terms of the beauty should
come from the clarity and you know
sometimes the motivation for the idea
can be pretty but that's just a
different category of video. the one
that you know if it's um volumes of
higher dimensional spheres or something
that's something where it's only worth
making if I can anticipate what that
click would be and if it's not there I
there's just a million topics that like
could be just I just don't make it. So I
fall into the group of people who um has
uh had to do a lot of math uh over the
years, you know, in school, then in
university. And I was always good at the
formulas and numbers, but I've actually
never reached a feeling of seeing quote
unquote beauty in math, um or I was
never as fascinated with it. So I'm
curious, does that come through great
introduction to math or is it something
that you either have or you don't? Like
was that a function of the fact that I
never had a teacher who was so obsessed
with math and were able to give me that
feeling or was it just that I don't have
it?
>> Almost certainly the former I think yeah
if you had the right teacher um who was
because as kids also you index a lot off
of what adults show to be interesting.
Yeah. And you would see that I think
leaving room for math to be discovered
within someone's head rather than like
poured into their head
>> that gives room for it to actually be
your own. And when it's your own, it's
easier to see the beauty in it. So if I
go and I try to say like uba, when you
add up the reciprocals of square
numbers, it's pi squared over six. Like
how surprising that you're like, oh why
you like throwing this at me? Whereas if
you're like
playing I remember actually I was
playing around on a calculator when I
was like little and I was like adding up
the one over factorials. I'm like 1 over
1 plus 1 over2 plus 1 over 6 plus 1 over
24 and it was approaching like 1 uh
1.71828. I'm like that's interesting.
That's just one less than the number e.
And then I I was like hm that's weird.
But what if we tried to did zero
factorial make any sense? when I like
asked the calculator and it's like when
I'm like oh that's so pretty. So then it
would actually be E. And later I learned
like oh actually that's almost almost
like the definition of E. And I feel
like having had that experience of just
playing around and seeing and like for a
brief moment it felt like my own fact
and it felt prettier because of that
like that you add up the reciprocals of
factorials and you get e. Whereas if it
had just been like calc 2 we're doing
this lesson on tailaylor series. We do
the tailaylor's expansion of e to the x
and you plug in one. It might have been
like huh all right. but it wouldn't have
felt as like pretty. So, I think having
the teacher who like shows their own
interest, but even more important than
that would be giving you as the up and
cominging student the space to feel like
it could grow inside your own head.
That's probably where this emotion is
actually going to come from.
>> So, is it too late? Where do I start if
I want to see if I can discover beauty
and math?
>> Yeah. Well, you
>> What do I start with?
>> You go to youtube.com/3blon
brown. um you pause the videos when you
feel like you see what the idea is going
to be and see if you can come up with it
in your own.
>> No, I don't know. I mean, you um yeah,
if you want to find that beauty,
honestly, just like play. I think
if if that's what you want, you could
take a topic that you want to learn
about maybe with some evidence that
other people have mentioned that it's
beautiful. Linear algebra can be
beautiful, right? And so you say that's
also useful, so let me try to learn
that. however you like to learn things.
Watch videos, chat with an LLM, read
lectures, have a tutor, like whatever
your method of like you want to learn it
is, but just give yourself the space to
say, "My goal right now is not to learn
this as quickly as I can. If you're
going at it for aesthetic reasons, then
whenever there's a fact that gives you a
little hint that like maybe there's
something interesting there, pause.
>> Don't let someone else spoil it for you
and just like scribble a bunch in your
notebook to see if you can like get at
get to terms with it in your own head.
you're pretty likely to find some beauty
there. And you might find beauty in
facts that are kind of benol. Like I'll
get people writing to me all the time
where you know they like want me to make
a it's like a student like you should
make a video about such and such because
like it's so pretty. And really it's
that they had this experience like
rediscovering a little thing for
themselves. I'm like that's amaz I'm not
going to make a video on it but like
that's amazing that like you had this
experience. Um and you can see in the
way that they're writing about it that
like it was their own and they could
have read about it somewhere. They could
have had like an LLM tell them about it.
the fact that they had like found it on
their own is why they were so inspired
to like dig up the contact information
for me and like reach out and try to
pitch on it and like you can give
yourself that experience if you don't
feel rushed.
>> So, uh since you're bringing up LLMs,
how do you think education will change
and how are you thinking about educating
your own son where you know LLM can just
feed you all the information? Well, the
the fundamental problem with education
has never been one of the medium of
explanation. So,
um when motion picture first came out,
Thomas Edison has these quotes about
like the textbook will be obsolete
because we have motion picture. When
radio came out, there were these radio
universities which pitched to like
universities are going to be dead
because what if you have the best
lecture in the world reaching a million
ears? Like why would you ever go to a
normal college? And you would like write
in your homework by mail. It was very
interesting. They had TV universities in
the ' 50s. You had like all these dot
education startups in the '9s. You had
like the MOOs in the 2010s. I do think
LLMs are different in that like they are
better than those, right? But like I
don't know mukes were better than radio
universities also like they are better
but the fundamental issue comes down to
do kids want to learn and so how how
will it make a difference I think for
those who want to learn it's a huge
unlock right um you can just like I'm
sure you use them all the time to like
learn stuff and you can like chat and
all that and so that's that's big it's
not like revolutionary in the sense that
like now we've solved education because
like that it's just not the problem
maybe there's creative ways to use it
for motivation
the like there's a this is like a half
joke but half conversation starter that
I like to tell if people want to chat
about like solutions to education where
I actually know the solution to
education that has nothing to do with LL
>> what's the solution to education
>> so the I I'll start I'll start with the
caveats which is that it is neither
scalable nor ethical okay
>> so
>> those are great great [laughter] starts
>> so so aside from that this is the
solution we're going to focus on high
school for right Now, just cuz this
maybe gets weird if it's too young, but
um you you hire actors roughly the same
number of actors as there are students
um preferably attractive actors to like
be in the school, right? And each one of
them has a mark. It's one of the actual
students. So, you've got your actors and
they've got their mark and they
basically take the topics that you want
your mark to learn about like maybe if
they're struggling in English. Um then
they go and they they either befriend or
they like flirt depending on the like
you know sexual interests of everybody
involved. Um but they like they they
charismatically engage with at a social
level their mark. Um and then they just
show an interest in the thing that you
want the mark to learn about. If they're
struggling in English they just show
that they're really passionate about
like reading Moby Dick or something and
they like they try to like get their
their mark to read it with them at the
social level. if they're um struggling
with math, they come and they do the
thing I'm doing to you now that's like
no, it really can be beautiful if you
like slow down and like let me show you
this thing, right? And they do that with
their mark. Um yeah, that that's the way
that if if you want that batch of high
school students to just like just do
>> so basically incentivize them by sexual
attraction and that attraction being
interested in a specific subject.
>> No, it doesn't have to be sexual. That
just makes the the thought experiment
more more fun to think of it as
flirting. But the the the point of it is
is to think the problem is not
explanation, it's motivation. The most
powerful form of motivation is social.
Um and then the most powerful form of
social motivation comes from your peers,
not from others. Like if you start with
all of that on the one hand, you could
say like why are you jabbering about
this is all just like a nonsequittor
when we want to talk about how to
actually change education. But I do
think if in your mind the platonic
version of perfect education, rather
than thinking of like young Spock inside
a little hemisphere that's like asking
him questions about math that's like
perfectly tailored to him, you know, the
AI agent that's been like really
perfectly tailored to that need rather
than thinking of that as being the
platonic ideal of what solves it. If you
think of um airdropping your actors in
and each one having their mark like
that's platonic ideal, I think it shifts
how you think about it. For example, you
realize the value of a teacher is not in
so far as they are the explainer or the
best explainer. In fact, they should
probably spend less of their time
explaining and lean on like internet
resources to do the explanation. The
value of the teacher is um motivate the
student a social part of the student's
life that motivates them. There's so
many mathematicians I've talked to who I
say, "How did you get into math?" And
they say, "Well, there's this one
teacher who like pulled me aside and
said, "You're really good at this." A
small comment like that actually has a
huge influence on the student. Or if I'm
a content creator, I'm like, what makes
this more impactful to the student? On
the one hand, okay, I'm making the
content for the internet. So my job is
to make the good explanation that other
teachers can use cuz like you need the
explanations somewhere. So that's like
maybe the job number one. But on the
other hand, the influence that's
actually going to make a difference is
if I can I can play some form of social
role in their life. Now, I kind of can't
do that through a screen from some so
far away, but I can maybe make an effort
to try to be engaging or show my own
interest where the lasting impact is not
going to come from did I really clearly
explain why the volume of a
fourdimensional sphere is what it is.
You don't even care. The real interest
is going to come from like did I make
you care about that, right? and okay I
am not the you know it's not the like
the peer who's um got the greatest
social connection to them but if I think
of that as being the goal and saying how
can I approximate that even though I'm
so far away I'm not their peer I'm not
even there in their life that's going to
change the way that I explain it so when
you say how will LLM's change education
I mean it it gives a stronger crutch to
stand on for the explanation side it
means that that's even more solved than
it already was with textbooks and with
good videos and with mukes, but you know
just like getting that from 90% to 99%
isn't that significant in in the grander
scheme. So maybe it starts to reshame
how do teachers think about what their
role should be. Maybe it starts to
reframe like content creators thinking
of what are the aspects of explanation
that they're serving now as opposed to
LLMs. But it's not a trivial gamecher.
And if it is a gamecher, it's going to
be because of some very creative thing
that someone does to solve the
motivation problem. But it's not.
>> Would you say that um your interests are
completely motivation driven or is there
still some sort of natural inclination
to certain subjects? The reason why I
ask about that is because now there is a
bunch of alternative schools, alpha
school being one of them, and there's a
lot of derivatives that kind of follow
the same principle. And it
[clears throat] seems to me that pretty
early on they start having the kid focus
on the subjects that they're
specifically interested in. And I wonder
if there is a certain age where um if
it's too young, it could be too
detrimental to have them focus on their
natural inclination. and if there is
like an optimal age until when you can
try motivating them to be interested in
subjects outside of their personal
inclinations and then you have them
focus on them because I worry that maybe
they're over focusing kids too young um
before they hit that optimal age.
>> That seems like a valid worry. It's very
arbitrary what a kid likes early on and
so you definitely at least my philosophy
is you're going to always want to have
an influx of things that they're not yet
interested in but maybe you're just
trying to get them exposed. Like if they
show a strong proficiency for math,
great.
>> Yeah.
>> Let them run with that. But also like,
hey, let's go read a novel together,
right? Or let's go take a dance class.
It's like don't Yeah, certainly the
younger you are, you wouldn't want to
pigeon hole too much there. I think
where you can maybe do it is um
>> this depends on how personalized things
can be. If you're doing like a
one-on-one tutoring situation with
someone, like if I'm
>> tutoring like a young six-year-old and I
want them to love math, it's helpful if
I know what they're already interested
in and I can bring that in. Like I have
a six-year-old niece, she really likes
coloring. I want her to be in love with
math. And so in the math lessons we'll
do together, I'll
>> you use color.
>> Yeah, I use color, right? I make sure
that like color plays a meaningful role
in that. And so it's like you can
leverage their interest to try to get
there, but it wouldn't I I think it
would be wrong to pigeon hole and be
like you will be an artist and like all
of your time shall be spent on like
honing that craft. It's just it's just
too early. Yeah,
>> that makes sense. I want to talk uh
briefly about success. How do you see
success right now? What's your
definition of success?
>> I don't know if I have one. I feel like
I would be making up an answer while I'm
like
>> interesting. Have your parents not
instilled some sort of vision of
success? They were they were pretty
great about like Yeah, they were great
about not being like, "Hey, here's
here's what success looks like and we
really hope you achieve it." I mean,
there's the obvious stuff.
>> That's amazing.
>> You know,
>> what about like being in college and
being around people who all have some
sort of vision for what they should do?
And
>> I mean, implicitly there's definitely
at Stanford a sense that like you want
to
leave a footprint on the world, right?
And so maybe for better or for worse,
uh it would feel I don't know like if if
you if if people were saying, "What are
you doing after graduation?" and your
answer was like, "I'm going to go
meditate forever or something." Like
maybe they'd be like, "Oh, that's kind
of interesting, but there's maybe kind
of an implicit sense that like it really
should like touch the world." I don't
know if it was as strongly hinged on
maybe everyone cares about financial
success whether they want to or not. I
never really felt like oh like it really
matters a lot that you know like
financial success is comparable to
Stanford peers. Um I mean that's one
where you I think you step back there's
some basic need you just want to make
sure that like day by day you're you're
living happily right and so there's
certain thresholds there um it's
important to be healthy right I think
it's hard whatever notion of success you
have in life it's going to be hard to be
there if you're not healthy so in that
sense like that should be whatever is
required there like physically mentally
otherwise like that should be
prioritized there's a base level of
financial success to like not be
stressed about it and so that I think
above a certain threshold, it like
doesn't actually matter that much, but
like it's very real. Like below a
certain threshold, it's just it's going
to it's going to eat into your life in a
certain way. Um
I mean, you you you referenced like the
the child and I think success kind of
centering on does he like things you
start to think very generationally like
does he have a happy life 20 years from
now?
>> You step back, what's required for that
to happen? That's maybe I Yeah, I like I
said, I would just be making up an
answer. you're going to have like the
classic stuff on like, you know, just
make sure the basic needs are met. Uh
make sure what you're doing feels
fulfilling. Uh
>> like improving people's lives in a
positive way. Like there's no there's no
like
there is not a number where like that
number has to like increase and like we
can measure it and like talk about it
and it gets over a bar. There's probably
someone could analyze my life and maybe
like back fill in being like, "Ah, you
might not think that this was your
metric success, but actually you seem to
really care about like watch time on
YouTube or something like that." There's
probably things that like I actually do
care about
>> where my actions would speak to that in
a way that like
>> while I'm being interviewed on a
podcast, I'm not going to be like, "Oh,
this is really what I, you know, care
about."
>> But it's interesting because your quote
unquote definition or lack of thereof of
success is still grounded in first
principles. It's like, do I have enough
money to not be stressed out? Am I being
fulfilled? It kind of goes back to that
groundedness. Um, we the other day with
friends, we were talking about happiness
versus meaning versus fulfillment. And
you mentioned, oh, is your are you
living a happy life? Do you think it's
more about happiness or is it about
being fulfilled and finding meaning and
purpose in your life and work?
>> I think fulfillment matters more than
happiness. I do think happiness
um happiness is great. It's easier to
achieve happiness. Uh like I don't know
uh play music, exercise, have a child.
Uh and like great, you got your
happiness. Like uh
>> simple.
>> It's very simple. It's actually not like
again assuming all the needs are met,
right? There's not stresses in life.
It's like you can generate happiness. Um
>> maybe in the sense of like
uh dopamine boost, right?
uh fulfillment, you know, that that
probably is the thing that if if you're
going to sit back and strategize how do
you want to spend your time because that
one matters, but it's also harder. Maybe
that's what you should be thinking
about. Um you can't just
>> actually no the child it's really great.
you can just have a child cuz if it goes
well then you'll also get the
fulfillment but it's it's easy for it to
not go well and so maybe you don't want
to um
>> yeah you don't want to hinge on that but
uh you know there's there there's
certainly capacity for joy um easily
there
of those three how do you think about it
um when you think about the life that
you want to lead is there one that is
more top of mind is there like a balance
that you find uh is that even the right
framework for how you think about things
>> um in terms of happiness, fulfillment,
and su what success means
>> exactly.
>> I'd say that for me, I've definitely had
over the years ideas of what I wanted to
do and who I want to be and actually
speaking um I think you were already
here. We're talking about what has
changed this year and this year I have
made a decision to step away from my
startup and basically embark on a
journey of uncertainty and it was
letting go of a lot of ideas of what
success and what um meaning and what
work I wanted to do given my younger
version of self. Um so I would say that
I kind of fell prey into the traditional
ideas of success or like what is the
vision that you have for yourself in 5
10 15 years. But what I'm finding myself
in is that the older I become, the more
I realize that life changes, priorities
change, and actually the most important
thing is that groundedness that I've
been uh I've been describing you
yourself as uh that it's important to
feel that you're finding nourishment in
the things that you do, that you are
feeling content with the community that
you build. Do you for me personally it's
really important to feel that I'm
growing and growing into a version of
myself that I think I could become. So
if you know in the world you had all
these different parallel versions of
yourself and there was one most optimal
one that had all the traits uh that
fulfilled your given potential or maybe
you look up to um certain rolodex of
people that have certain tra traits and
you want to achieve that version of
yourself. Um, so are you really on the
path to get there or not? Uh, I'd say
that's how I define meaning and
fulfillment now. But again, if you were
to ask my younger self, I would
definitely give you like a list of ideas
that u define success.
>> How do you balance um thinking about
growth and like value to yourself versus
how much of fulfillment comes from what
you're delivering to other people?
>> Yeah, that's a great question. I've
always been of
the thoughts that as long as you're
focused on growth for yourself, the
meaning to other people will naturally
come and it would be like a secondary
derivative of the
>> I'm not sure that's true or at the very
least I feel like I'm curious if you
disagree. I feel like a lot of young
people, especially like college or just
graduating college, their whole life has
been centered on growth, individual
their own growth, right? And I think
it's very easy for that to have an
inertia where the way that they choose
what to work on is centered around their
own growth in a way that on the one hand
like you're right you gain more
expertise and that expertise then you
can like use in the world and maybe
there's enough other forcing functions
in the world like financial ones and
otherwise that like they kind of don't
grow in the ways that they wouldn't
choose to grow in ways that don't also
touch the world. But a place where I do
think there's maybe a risk is like in
academia if someone is just focused on
like hey what's interesting to me do
they feel like I'm learning they might
pursue things that seem hard but
tractable to them as opposed to pursuing
things where their expertise actually
unlocks things for like others in the
world. But I'm really curious if this is
just a natural evolution that happens
where we start with the pursuit of our
own interests and then the feedback of
the outside world uh shifts that pursuit
towards wanting to help and be valuable
to others because uh correct me if I'm
wrong, but I'm kind of under the
impression that you started making math
videos because you thought they were
really fun and math was something that
you were drawn to and found beauty in.
So, it was very self-driven in a lot of
ways. And then at the beginning of the
conversation, we talked about how um
instead of focused focusing on am I
making a novel, you know, proof or
something novel in my videos or in the
topics that I pick, now you're a lot
more drawn to what is going to be
valuable to your students and to your
audience. So, it has been kind of a
natural arc and progression that
happened to you. And in my life, what I
just people that I've surrounded myself
with with or I observed, I've seen a
similar thing happen. Some people are a
lot more deliberate in picking a thing
that's valuable to society because
they're very overindexed on impact. Uh
but a lot of people are just drawn to
the things that they're good at, curious
about, interested in, and then the world
gives them feedback.
>> That might happen. And so maybe it's a
non-issue because there's enough
incentives towards making people do
things that will touch the world that
are valuable.
>> Yeah. That you don't need. But maybe you
mentioned academia specifically and I
guess in academia you're you pick a
thesis, you research it, you're kind of
stuck working on it for years and years.
>> Yeah. I mean because you do have a kind
of currency which is citations and so in
some sense that is your connection to
does this matter to other people like
are they going to say so it's it's not
completely disconnected right um how
strong is that source of feedback for
what the world wants versus um like
economic based ones that people face uh
in like the for-profit world? it's
probably weaker. My my worry with that
one is that it's it's indirect because
it's value delivered to other academics
for their research. And so following
that chain down to at what point do you
make sure that the intellectual brain
cycle spent from this person really do
end up like touching the world in a
meaningful way. It's not that the
incentives don't sit there because they
do through this currency of citation and
eventually that like chains down towards
where's this research coming from, who's
funding it and all that.
I wonder whether people would more
judiciously spend their youthful,
energetic years if rather than waiting
for like their first decade after
college to like slowly feel those
incentives to redirect their personal
sense of fulfillment away from personal
growth per se or personal growth as an
in of itself and instead towards value
for others like rather than relying on
the winds of economic incentive or the
winds of like citation incentive to like
push them that way. But it's like no,
like sit down like think about what you
actually want to want to do here and uh
discover that earlier rather than later.
Like would people would I have started
making more useful videos earlier?
>> Probably. Like would uh you know I don't
know if you would lead your life any
differently if you could transport your
current value system onto your postcol.
It's hard to imagine though that you
wouldn't have more expeditiously gotten
to the goals that you want to get to if
you couldn't have that value system. So
I think I have a
a worry about personal growth being a
goal in and of itself
>> just because there's such strong inertia
for that. I don't know this was I gave
like this was like the topic of that
commencement address I was referencing
earlier because I was thinking like back
when I was a like graduate what what
advice would I have benefit benefited
from and I think it's something of this
form where there really is this
self-identity that we imbue into
students
>> where success depends on how good they
are in a like very individualistic sense
right we try not to we try to have
collaborative projects or like
internships or things like that but it's
really baked in that like it's dependent
on in individualistic success. And I
just suspect that having a little bit of
a harder hammer that like knocks you out
of that value system and into a more
others focused one earlier on rather
than later. Maybe that could redirect a
lot of
very talented brain cycle spent for like
young 20somes deciding where they get
their fulfillment from. And it's gonna
involve personal growth because whatever
you want to do, you have to like learn
in order to do that.
>> Yeah.
>> But learning with an others focused end
in mind as opposed to learning with like
a good litmus test for this is if you
take if you like find some smart person
who's like found a little bit of
financial freedom and you're like what
do you do with your free time? And if
they're like oh I've like hired a
physics tutor so that I can like
understand physics better. Like I'm
getting really good at chess. It's like
that's I think that is a sign of the
kind of inertia that I'm talking about
that I'm afraid of. And I I have a
suspicion that this is a a like a real
phenomenon that that
>> No, I think it is actually a real
concern because your focus on yourself
then impacts so many other things in
your life unless you've learned
otherwise. Just how you treat people,
how you protect your time, not to be
kind of a even a social part of society
if that's inconvenient to your
day-to-day goals and life and it
isolates people. Um, so I I do think you
have a valid point there. I uh maybe
this sounds too uh too arrogant, but
[laughter]
but I have a feeling I've like, you
know, got those more collectivistic
values instilled in my childhood and I
feel like I don't um I don't fall prey
of what I just said because because of
that.
>> I think you're a good example here.
>> Yeah. But but I do think it's a it's a
real problem. And I I do sometimes think
about um you know, if I were to focus my
personal goals um on impact more uh
deliberately, what would that look like?
Right this moment, I'm in this
transition period where I'm kind of
giving myself time to figure out what is
it exactly that I am drawn to and how I
want to make that impact if that was the
goal because I just stepped away from
the startup journey where that was very
much impact focused. So, it's almost
like swinging the other way uh to find
some sort of middle ground, but I'm not
putting a lot of pressure on myself
being like, "Okay, I have to figure out
how this is going to be like super super
useful to society immediately because I
am secretly hoping that it's going to be
that secondary effect that I was talking
about."
>> That's fair. Yeah. And also, you know, a
cynic could like, "Hang on, weren't you
just talking a half an hour ago about
like you want to change such that you
spend more of your own time learning
rather than like making things like So,
I definitely feel that." But I'm curious
if if you were to run this thought
experiment on yourself, if you instilled
the values that you have now into your
younger self, what do you think the arc
would have been? Like cuz would a lot of
things have changed? A part of me is
thinking that, okay, you would have been
making more quote unquote useful videos
right off the get-go, but maybe a part
of you needed to fulfill that desire to
go off on your own and focus on novelty.
So either way, you would like rebel and
do that. So in the arc of things, the
output would have been maybe similar,
but that's just my
>> Yeah, counterfactuals are so hard,
right? Because you you change one thing
and it's hard to know what else doesn't
change. It's also hard to know
>> if there's a form of success where it
came from. Exactly.
>> On the topic of YouTube channels, I feel
like there are certainly channels where
I watch them, I really like them,
there's aspects of it that I don't like,
and I'm like, I think the creator is
doing that because they think that
that's why their videos work. actually
their videos work in spite of that
annoying thing that they're doing, but
they have no idea because they this is
like reinforcement learning. It's like
actually hard to pin down what the
reason for like getting the good score
was. You all you know is like all the
actions taken like turned out well and
you'll see this like successful YouTube
channel has some annoying thing about it
but like it works because of some other
thing but they like lean into that
annoying part because well something was
working and maybe they think that was
it. I think actually creators are a
really good example of that because 10
years ago or 20 15 years ago, let's say,
when podcasts weren't as big as they are
now, you could have argued that a lot
of, you know, useful quote unquote units
of society could have been going off
doing something more valuable [laughter]
for society than starting a podcast. But
then now um a lot of the ones who
persevered and did a great job are huge
and actually are providing value to
society by interviewing people with
interesting perspectives, educating
audiences or even pushing certain
subjects forward. Um and then now you're
like, "Oh, wow. You know, you're so good
at this. Of course, you're doing this.
This is very valuable to everyone uh
around you." But like 10 years ago, you
could have argued otherwise.
>> Yeah. And I think there's a lot of
examples outside of creators where
someone's tinkering on something that
they're so passionate about and maybe
that this is very niche. Um and then
in hindsight like 10 years uh from that
point looking back they're like oh of
course you know now I've provided so
much value to people around me because I
decided to pursue that very niche thing
that everyone else thought was useless.
>> Yeah. Yeah. You are right that there's
value there. Um it's [laughter] yeah
it's it's hard to think about on that
balance of ah would more useful hours be
spent not consuming these podcast
>> how are you thinking about it as a
parent
>> in in know I guess there's a couple
different in which specific respect
>> like in instilling uh the idea of
picking something that's valuable like
being others first self first. Yeah, I
mean child.
>> No, it's a good question. I think um
>> I mean it is very hard for kids in
general to not be self-centered and like
think about themselves as the
protagonist of their own story. It can
take until some people never get over
that. But like a lot of people it's
until they're like teenage years that
>> maybe this is why a lot of people now
don't get over that because we've been
so overindexed on self. But I so in the
same way that I think there's lots of
ways you can think about a curriculum
for like learning how to read or like
learning math or things like that. I
suspect that you can do something
similar in thinking about having empathy
or like being others focused
talk to me in 5 years. Uh but I I I
think it is very important to go through
like if you're if you're so there's
there are different phases. There's like
as you're like a very little one, right?
Let's take talk like two through five,
right? Like literally being aware that
like other people have stuff going on in
their own heads and like letting some of
your brain cycles be spent like
understanding what's going on there. I
think that is hard for that age. I think
it's possible and I think it's a fun
thought experiment to think how do you
even get them to do that? and stories
maybe seem like the best way just really
embracing stories maybe reflecting on
what happens in a day maybe in a moment
like encouraging them them like hey what
do you think she's thinking right now
like little things like that I think you
can I intend to spend as much time
thinking about like making uh a child
think about others as like teaching how
to read or teaching math that's right up
there then in the phase of like you know
5 through 10 I think you have the
capacity where it's not just knowing
that someone else has
>> their own personal experience that is as
vivid to them as yours is to yours. But
also you could think like
>> what can I do to make their life better,
right? Um like being other centered in
in that way where recognizing
it's not just that they are the
protagonist but you can play a role in
their story and do something for them.
Again like I'll have clearer thoughts uh
later on as that comes but that but that
is a thing I intend to value. I think
it's not written about with the same
sort of like academic focus as some of
the like often we think of there's
educational stuff like capital E ed
education that's like your ABCs 1 2 3
whatnot and then there's things that are
more like social norms that we don't
think of as in the same way but I wonder
if actually we should blend them a
little bit more and the way that you
learn math and reading should be in this
very like social norm kind of way and
the way you learn social norms should be
in this very like structured no let's
actually think about what do you need to
know in order to get to this level and
that level and such like what does it
look like to empathize at a 5-year-old
level or what does it look like to
empathize at a 10-year-old level and
like what's the curriculum that gets
there? Talk to me in five years. But I I
this is a longwinded way of saying like
I think it's important to think about
and I have every intention of doing
that.
>> I want to be mindful of our time so I'm
going to wrap up.
>> Okay.
>> Um I'm just going to ask you a few
questions for our lightning round. All
right, I'll I'll keep them short.
>> Um, what do you hope the 80-year-old
version of you will be proud of?
>> I mean, since we're focused on the math
and math channel stuff, I think having
instilled a meaningful number of people
with like genuine intuitions for just
how math works, right? That's a very
broad sentence, but something like that,
knowing that there are people who
understand it better than they otherwise
would have, and the depth with which
they do is meaningful, and the number of
people who I've touched in that way is
meaningful. Hopefully something like
that. And it ranges not just from the
channel, but also like in personal life,
right? Like people I tutor or something.
>> Oh, you still tutor people?
>> Uh, these days it's just my nieces and
friends. It is people. It's a very
different kind of tutoring. Yeah, it's a
very different kind of tutoring, but I I
I really hope to have an impact there.
Um, so and I intend to do more more
teaching as I free up my own time. Yeah.
>> Your life philosophy in one sentence.
Um,
this is not very lightning.
Life philosophy in one
>> in one sentence.
>> My god. Lightning round questions.
I know this is not the answer you want.
I don't have one. It's okay not to have
one.
>> I think it's okay not to have one.
>> That's my life philosophy. It's okay not
to have like a single guiding
philosophy.
>> Wait, that's great. I love it.
>> Okay, we we'll run with that.
the best advice you've ever received.
>> Action precedes motivation.
>> Oh, I actually love that. I um this is
one of my lessons for 2026 or rather
it's one of my lessons from 2025 guiding
principle for 2026 that action precedes
clarity. Um because I spent a lot of
time especially post startup being like
okay you know what is let's overanalyze
what I could be doing and what I
realized is that the most important
thing is always be in motion in movement
and action will create clarity and then
10 years from now I'll be like well of
course all these dots connect so
perfectly hopefully
>> um what's a trait that you have that
you're genuinely grateful for
>> I think calm but I think like emotional
regulation it's easy to think that like
ah you have control over yourself But I
think over the years I've come to
understand that actually there's just a
lot of baked in disposition and it's not
a given that like when things are
stressful.
>> Okay, I can't say I handle stress like
gracefully in all circumstances. I maybe
have a tendency to like
fall under paralysis, but what I don't
fall prey to is like getting heated.
>> And I I think that's not some I think
that's just baked in disposition.
>> I think so. I'm I'm very similar. I'm
very emotionally steady and more or less
the same. I don't have a lot of like
super super high highs or super low
lows. And actually with stress, I have a
very calm disposition. I don't really
get heated, which I think is um we're
really lucky to have that.
>> Yeah. Yeah.
>> Um and last but not least, what are you
excited to learn or explore next? Ah
>> um
I think
well I mean just the team growth aspect.
So, let's just like learning to like run
a small team um effectively to like
carry out visions. I have that I don't
have any illusions about already being
skilled at that. I'm well aware that
that involves practice and learning. I
have philosophies on how I think I can
do it. Well, I'm excited to see how
those will be corrected faced against
reality.
>> Awesome. I'm excited for you, Grant.
Thank you so much for your time. Thanks.
